U.S. troops today acted for the first time to capture an alleged Bosnian war
criminal, rushing from unmarked vans parked in the northern Serb-dominated city
of Bijeljina to seize a former concentration camp commander accused of killing
at least 16 Muslims and abusing or terrorizing scores of others.	LEAD
Goran Jelisic, a 29-year-old who described himself a "Serb Adolf" and had made
little attempt to hide his presence in the city, was surrounded without incident
as he left his apartment at roughly 8 a.m. He then was transferred to Tuzla,
site of the main U.S. military base in Bosnia, and immediately flown to The
Hague, where he was placed in the custody of officials from the International
War Crimes Tribunal there.	MAIN
The U.S. military action was planned in advance, according to officials here.
But it was carried out during a week in which human rights groups have sharply
criticized the Clinton administration for refusing to let U.S. troops seize any
of the dozens of the indicted war crimes suspects still at large in this
country. U.S. forces provided backup support to British troops that fatally shot
one Serb and captured another last July and to Dutch troops that seized two
Croats in December.	CIRC
The U.S. Embassy here issued a general warning to Americans that they could be
at risk for reprisals. But Jelisic was probably one of the least provocative
targets Washington could pick. He is not considered close to the hard-line Serb
leadership and, according to one well-informed diplomat here, "was not popular"
among fellow Serbs in Bijeljina. A U.S. military officer said he was "a thug"
without political standing.	CONS
Graham Blewitt, deputy prosecutor of the war crimes tribunal, nonetheless hailed
Jelisic's arrest and said the allegations against him "are very serious. The
offenses committed were horrific, and the accused was personally involved in a
lot of them. We regard him as a significant arrest."	VERB
Blewitt added that "we hope this is not the end of it," alluding to the
approximately 50 additional publicly indicted war crimes suspects who have not
been turned over to the tribunal. An unknown number of combatants have been
indicted secretly by the tribunal, which the United Nations established in 1993
to seek justice for the horrendous human rights abuses that occurred during the
1992-1995 ethnic war.	VERB
The two Bosnian entities -- the Serb Republic and Croat-Muslim federation -- are
required under the 1995 Dayton peace accord that imposed a cease-fire here to
surrender all accused war criminals within their jurisdictions. But the top two
targets, hard-line Serb leader Radovan Karadzic and former Serb military chief
Ratko Mladic, are well-protected by armed guards. The West's strategy has been
to try to undermine their power.	HIST
The U.S. military maintains an estimated 8,000 troops in the northeast
"corridor" of Bosnia that includes Bijeljina, a city of fewer than 100,000
people that remains home to many hard-line Serbs. But the city itself is not
patrolled routinely by Americans and instead falls under the responsibility of
Russian peacekeeping forces operating under NATO command. Officials here say
that Moscow's policy bars any involvement by its soldiers in capturing war
criminals, however, and the Russians were not informed in advance of the
American operation.	CIRC
In a June 1995 indictment by the tribunal, Jelisic was charged with genocide,
crimes against humanity, violations of the laws or customs of war, and grave
breaches of the Geneva Conventions governing the treatment of prisoners of war.
The allegations grew out of reports that he systematically killed Muslims who
had been detained at a bus company, a police headquarters in the city of Brcko,
and the Luka concentration camp.	HIST
In addition, according to a U.N. spokesman here, Jelisic "created an atmosphere
of terror [at the camp] by killing, abusing and threatening the detainees,
thereby subjecting them to extreme psychological trauma, degradation and fear."
Some of the evidence to be presented by the tribunal is based on exhumations
conducted near Brcko last year.	VERB
Dutch National Radio reported in December that Jelisic told an interviewer he
had no regrets for his actions in Brcko, saying he slept well because "I never
used knives to kill people. . . . That's why God invented the pistol."	CIRC
When he was captured today, Jelisic was carrying a pistol, according to U.S.
officials in Washington.	MAIN
The tribunal's chief prosecutor, Louise Arbour, has promised speedy trials for
all those detained. But the tribunal has four trials underway and five more
awaiting a courtroom, making it unlikely that Jelisic will be tried for another
year, officials said.	VERB
Arbour's predecessor, Richard Goldstone and a group of former U.S. and allied
officials and jurists have criticized the Clinton administration for not
ordering U.S. troops to seize alleged war criminals. Goldstone said the U.S.
failure to act had provoked contempt for the Dayton accord and impeded the
creation of a new Bosnian nation.	VERB
But today, an organizer of the group, Nina Bang-Jensen of the Coalition for
International Justice in Washington, praised the administration for
orchestrating an "important arrest."	VERB

One of the richest men in South Korea, the chairman of Samsung Co., said today
he would sell $ 75 million worth of landholdings -- keeping only his and his
mother's homes -- to invest in his ailing company and "share the pain of the
nation."	LEAD
Samsung Chairman Lee Kun Hee, a man considered almost royalty here, also pledged
to donate 90 percent of his annual income, or about $ 6 million, to a welfare
fund for workers as long as the country remains crippled by financial crisis.	MAIN
This dramatic and symbolic announcement came as the president-elect, Kim Dae
Jung, vowed to cut his own modest salary by 30 percent. (At the current exchange
rate, his presidential salary would amount to less than $ 60,000.)	MAIN
Samsung also announced today that the company is scaling back, shelving plans to
build a showcase 102-story Seoul office building and cutting ties with a prized
asset, the influential daily newspaper Joong Ang Ilbo. Samsung also plans to
sell $ 300 million worth of buildings in London, Singapore and the New York
area.	MAIN
But, in a sign of the growing suffering of ordinary workers, chairman Lee's plan
to donate personal assets to help with the problems was quickly dismissed by
angry working people and by political analysts as a pittance.	VERB
"These company heads exploited their workers and got rich off the little
people," said Lee Hi Ho, a businessman hit by the crisis. "It's their duty to
give back some of the money.	VERB
"I am really not impressed. The money didn't belong to him in the first place,"
said an even angrier Han Jae Jyuk, 32, a worker in Seoul.	VERB
But despite criticisms that the corporate elite must do more, Lee's offering
adds to the growing pressure on the men who run South Korea's biggest companies
to forfeit some of their enormous wealth. For some of the corporate kings,
personal helicopters and antique cars are as common as toys.	EXPE
"There is strong and growing resentment toward the chaebol heads," said Lee Jung
Hoon, a political science professor at Yonsei University, referring to the
leaders of the country's business conglomerates. "People want the industrial
heads to demonstrate their share of the suffering."	VERB
Lee said some of these titans have amassed so much money that many feel that
these family-run companies, along with the government, orchestrated
"institutionalized theft of taxpayers." He said he doubted today's announcements
would satisfy people who have been hit hard by shrinking income and rising
prices.	VERB
"So he gives up 90 percent of his salary. These guys don't need a salary,"
Professor Lee said.	VERB
A growing number of ordinary people, faced with unpaid bills or their small
businesses going bust, are trying to sell their homes to raise cash. Some, at
least, were glad the chairman of Samsung was putting up some of his property,
too.	CIRC
"I know it is only a symbolic gesture, but it means a lot," said housewife Kim
Sun Yong.	VERB
Chairman Lee apparently could recoup the money he invested in Samsung from the
sale of his real estate, but the details of his pledge were not clear tonight. A
spokesman for the company, Je Seung Lim, said the chairman also would withdraw
cash from his bank account and sell stock for a new fund for workers hurt by the
restructuring efforts. He said the chairman was trying to help the nation "pull
through the current economic hardship."	CONS
Mass layoffs are expected throughout South Korea in coming months, and millions
of workers have been notified in recent weeks about sharp pay cuts. The most
militant unions are asking that the heads of the conglomerates be removed from
their businesses and replaced by professional managers, because millions of
livelihoods are at stake.	CONS
The chairman of the Lotte Group, Shin Kyuk Ho, said last week that he would
invest $ 10 million of his own money to bolster his company, and announcements
from other chairmen are now expected.	CIRC
President-elect Kim made it clear Tuesday that he was not pleased with the
restructuring plans announced by two other conglomerates, Hyundai Corp. and LG
Group; the wealthy heads of these conglomerates did not offer to use their
personal assets in the recovery plan. The president-elect was quoted by aides as
calling their plans "hollow" and "cosmetic."	VERB

President Clinton had planned weeks ago to devote yesterday to building up
public interest in next week's State of the Union address. Instead, he spent his
afternoon with a revolving door of reporters, in a campaign to keep his
presidency from buckling under the force of allegations about his relationship
with a former White House intern.	LEAD
In a remarkable series of three interviews in which the president was questioned
bluntly and without apology about adultery and obstruction of justice alike,
Clinton denied having had a sexual relationship with a then-White House aide,
24-year-old Monica Lewinsky. But he also repeatedly refused to say whether he
ever discussed with Lewinsky how she should answer questions about their
relationship.	MAIN
Appearing on PBS's "NewsHour With Jim Lehrer," Clinton emphatically denied that
he had encouraged Lewinsky to lie to attorneys seeking a statement from her in
the Paula Jones sexual harassment case. At the same time, he brushed aside
requests to explain his relationship or conversations with her.	MAIN
"I did not urge anyone to say anything that was untrue," Clinton told Lehrer.
"That's my statement to you."	MAIN
It was precisely this suspicion that had engulfed the White House yesterday in a
furor that aides acknowledged threatens to be the gravest legal and political
challenge Clinton has faced in five years as president.	MAIN
An allegation that Clinton and Washington lawyer Vernon E. Jordan Jr., one of
the president's closest advisers, coached Lewinsky to commit perjury in the
Jones case prompted Whitewater independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr on Friday to
secretly seek and gain authority from a three-judge panel to expand his
investigation.	CIRC
Only late Tuesday evening did Clinton and his lawyers learn of Starr's new
avenue and of the potentially damaging evidence -- including taped conversations
between Lewinsky and a former co-worker -- he has already assembled.	CIRC
Within hours of the news of the allegations breaking at midnight Tuesday, the
White House was in the midst of a full-blown media frenzy, with senior aides and
lawyers meeting and talking by phone through the night about how to respond. The
most important element of the response came from Clinton himself -- in three
previously scheduled interviews he gave carefully worded statements that denied
some of the most unseemly allegations but left other pressing questions
unanswered.	CIRC
Clinton earlier in the day issued a statement denying that he had any "improper
relationship," but as the day wore on he was pressed to be more specific.	nan
"The relationship was not sexual," Clinton told Roll Call, a Capitol Hill
newspaper. "And I know what you mean, and the answer is no."	CIRC
Clinton told National Public Radio that his answers to questions about Lewinsky
were constrained by Starr's investigation. NPR reporter Mara Liasson asked
Clinton "whether you had any conversations with her about her testimony, had any
conversations at all."	CIRC
The president responded: "I think given the state of this investigation, it
would be inappropriate for me to say more. I've said everything, I think, that I
need to say now."	CONS
Clinton advisers inside and outside the White House acknowledged how unlikely
these clipped answers are to satisfy the public's demand for reassurance that
Clinton and Jordan did nothing improper. And, uncharacteristically, they made
scarcely any effort to play down the severity of their situation.	VERB
Even in a White House that long ago learned to prosper amid political and legal
controversies, the latest allegations exploded like a bomb on a quiet street.
Administration officials who had believed they had withstood the worst of the
Whitewater and Democratic fund-raising investigations recited a long list of new
problems:	CONS
The allegations, unless effectively and swiftly rebutted, threaten to swamp
Clinton in a perilous new criminal investigation, aides said; they promise to
overwhelm public attention that would ordinarily be devoted to the policies and
rhetoric Clinton will present in Tuesday's prime-time State of the Union speech,
and already they have badly undermined morale at the Clinton White House.	VERB
Many present and former officials in the middle and lower ranks acknowledged
privately that they did not see Clinton's careful statements yesterday as
anything like the full-throated denial they were hoping for. And many of these
people -- who regularly denounced the Whitewater and fund-raising probes as
partisan vendettas -- said they could scarcely defend their boss if the new
charges turn out to be substantially true. "I hope he didn't do these things,
but if he did he should resign, he shouldn't be president," said one
administration official who started with Clinton in the 1992 campaign.	VERB
Instead of dismissing the allegations as patently absurd, several people placed
their hope on more narrow grounds: Would it really be logistically possible for
the president to carry out the two-year sexual relationship that sources said
Lewinsky has claimed in the taped conversations with the former co-worker? Could
it be that Lewinsky had fabricated a tale?	VERB
For senior White House officials, the day began with an injunction not to
concern themselves with such questions. Chief of Staff Erskine B. Bowles, at the
7:45 a.m. senior staff meeting, made what aides described as a short, grim
speech in which he noted the morning's headlines but reminded his team that
Clinton had faced similar crises and distractions in the past. He told everyone
to concentrate on their work and turned the floor over to national economic
adviser Gene Sperling for a discussion of tax policy.	CIRC
But few people around the White House were interested in tax policy. "There's an
air of unreality here," said one White House official. Many staff members
talking with reporters grilled them on the latest of what they had heard. Many
said they spent the day glued to the television. Portions of Clinton's interview
with NPR and PBS were carried live on major broadcast networks.	CONS
CNN went live with White House press secretary Michael McCurry's daily briefing,
which was uncommonly jammed with reporters and was dominated by extended but
unilluminating exchanges over what precisely Clinton was denying and what, if
anything, he was admitting. Repeatedly, McCurry was asked what constituted an
"improper relationship," each time falling back on a similar response: "I'm not
going to parse the statement. You've got the statement I made earlier and it
speaks for itself."	VERB
Likewise, first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, on a day trip to Baltimore to speak
at a college, found herself pressed for a response on the uproar.	CONS
"Can you say that you flatly believe these latest accusations are false?" a
reporter asked.	VERB
"Certainly I believe they're false," she replied. "Absolutely."	VERB
Asked if the publicity was difficult for her to endure, the first lady
acknowledged it was. "You know, I wouldn't say that it is not hard. It is
difficult and painful any time someone you care about, you love, you admire is
attacked and subjected to such relentless accusations as my husband has been,"
she said. "But I also have now lived with this for more than six years. And I
have seen how these charges evaporate and disappear as they're given the light
of day."	VERB
Last night, the president donned a black tie and the first lady a formal
evergreen suit to preside at a White House dinner to celebrate the completion of
a $ 25 million fund for White House restoration.	CONS
As if White House staff members needed to be told of the severity of the
charges, some of the key political advisers of the first term were there to
remind them. Former White House senior adviser George Stephanopoulos, now an
analyst for ABC News, offered a pungent assessment on "Good Morning, America."
"These are probably the most serious allegations yet leveled against the
president," he said. "There's no question that . . . if they're true, they're
not only politically damaging, but it could lead to impeachment proceedings.	VERB
"But they are just questions right now, and that's why I think we do all have to
take a deep breath before we go too far here, without underestimating their
seriousness," Stephanopoulos added.	VERB
Political consultant James Carville, who remains an informal adviser to the
Clinton White House and is often the Clinton team's designated point man for
attacking Starr, said it is imperative for Clinton's future that the charges be
dispensed with quickly.	VERB
"The president said they're not true; I believe it," Carville said in an
interview, acknowledging that many in the public will want more proof. "We've
got to get to the bottom of it and fast. . . . This could be the
most-talked-about [controversy] in modern political history."	VERB

Susan Valentine, a 38-year-old mother of five from Annandale, doesn't care
whether 20,000 or 100,000 antiabortion demonstrators turn out for today's "March
for Life," the protest held each year in Washington since the U.S. Supreme Court
legalized abortion 25 years ago.	LEAD
What matters, said Valentine, who has been active in the antiabortion movement
since she was 13, is that a quarter of a century after the court's Roe v. Wade
decision, "we are still going strong, still drawing thousands of people to
marches, still making this an issue for candidates. After all this time, it
shows the strength of people's convictions."	VERB
Organizers of the protest, which will begin with a noon rally at the Ellipse,
followed by a march up Constitution Avenue to the Supreme Court building,
declined yesterday to predict how many supporters will attend.	CIRC
But they said the 25th anniversary will draw a larger turnout than the 50,000 to
75,000 who have participated in recent years.	CIRC
Many older antiabortion activists from the Washington area have attended nearly
every annual rally, and some said this year's gathering is especially important,
given the current heated debate over "partial birth" abortions.	CIRC
"I remember one year there was a blizzard. Our church bus never came, so I
waited for a Metro bus, and that never came. Of course I'll be there tomorrow,"
said Robert Follett, 62, a longtime official with the Virginia Society for Human
Life. "I will always feel that it is anathema to kill a child, whether it is an
hour, a day, a week or months before the birth."	VERB
Thousands of parochial school and college students are joining this year's
demonstration, including 1,500 high school students from across the country who
spent last night at Catholic University. Some have described themselves as part
of the "Roe v. Wade generation" -- lucky to be alive and eager to carry on the
antiabortion crusade.	MAIN
"This generation has the plague of death hanging over it," said Christine
O'Donnell, 28, who heads a Christian youth group in Woodbridge that will hold a
"torch-passing" ceremony after the rally. "We see teens killing each other over
jackets, teens dumping babies in dumpsters. Instead, we need to raise up a
generation of young people who will carry the pro-life battle into the
millennium."	VERB
Organizations that support abortion rights are commemorating the Roe anniversary
in a more low-key fashion. Their only public event was a gathering Tuesday
outside the Supreme Court, where women who have had abortions talked about their
experiences.	CONS
Today, Vice President Gore will be the main speaker at a hotel luncheon given by
the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League. Also, Resist and
Refuse, a lesser-known abortion rights group, plans to hold a
counter-demonstration to the antiabortion rally near the Ellipse today.	CONS
"We have had lots of huge marches in our history," said Kate Michelman, NARAL
president. "We use the anniversary of Roe to reflect on women's lives and on the
profound impact this decision has had on women from every walk of life."	VERB
In addition to today's march, Roman Catholic churches and antiabortion groups
scheduled a series of activities in the area this week. Last night, Cardinal
Bernard Law led a special Mass at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the
Immaculate Conception, and youth groups held a "Kids for Life" music concert
there.


	PREV

Conservatives including Sen. John D. Ashcroft (R-Mo.) yesterday launched a drive 
to block Senate confirmation of David Satcher as surgeon general, setting the 
stage for a potentially rancorous fight over his nomination after Congress 
reconvenes next Tuesday.	LEAD
At a news conference sponsored by the conservative journal Human Events, 
Ashcroft and representatives of the Christian Coalition and the Family Research 
Council objected in particular to Satcher's support for President Clinton's 
stand opposing passage of legislation to ban what critics describe as 
"partial-birth" abortions.	MAIN
"The nation's chief medical officer should be above reproach," Ashcroft said. 
"Unfortunately, this is not the case with this nominee. Dr. Satcher joins with 
the president in support of 'partial birth' abortion, a position that places him 
squarely at odds with the professional and ethical judgment of the American 
Medical Association."	VERB
But in separate statements yesterday, the AMA and American Academy of Family 
Physicians reaffirmed their support for Satcher and called for his prompt 
confirmation.	PREV
"The American Medical Association continues to enthusiastically support Dr. 
David Satcher. . . . He will bring a wealth of experience from both the private 
and public sectors to the office," said AMA President-elect Nancy W. Dickey. The 
surgeon general's office "has been vacant far too long," and "the American 
public needs a credible voice they can turn to in times of a public health 
crisis," she added.	VERB
Satcher, a former president of Meharry Medical College who has served as 
director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention since 1993, was 
nominated last year by Clinton. His nomination was approved by the Senate Labor 
and Human Resources Committee and he appeared to have broad support in the 
Senate. But final Senate action was held up, largely because of conservatives' 
abortion-related objections.	PREV
While Ashcroft indicated he will keep trying to hold up action on the 
nomination, the timing is up to Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.), who 
said in a CNN interview Sunday that he intends to seek a vote "in the first 
couple of weeks" after Congress reconvenes. He would have to consider any "new 
information available from Sen. Ashcroft or others," Lott said. "But I think at 
some point the responsible thing to do is to call it on up. Let's have a debate 
on his qualifications and his positions and have a vote," Lott added.	VERB
Lott appeared to be a major focus of the conservatives' effort to derail 
Satcher's nomination. Randy Tate, executive director of the Christian Coalition, 
noted that Lott said Congress is the proper arena for action on abortion in a 
letter to the Republican National Committee before it voted last weekend against 
penalizing GOP candidates who oppose the ban. So Lott should "exercise 
leadership in the U.S. Senate and defend these innocent children by defeating 
this nomination," Tate said.	VERB
Meanwhile, on another contentious nomination, the Justice Department disagreed 
with two influential senators who contend that Bill Lann Lee, whose nomination 
as assistant attorney general for civil rights was stalled in the Senate last 
year, cannot serve in an acting capacity in the job beyond 120 days.	CIRC
In letters to Senate Judiciary Committee Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Sen. Robert 
C. Byrd (D-W.Va.), Assistant Attorney General Andrew Fois said it has "long been 
the position" of the Justice Department that it does not fall under the 120-day 
limitation prescribed by the Vacancies Act. In any case, the limitation would no 
longer apply when Clinton renominates Lee, as he has said he will do, Fois said.	VERB
There was no immediate response from Hatch or Byrd.	CIRC

Conservatives including Sen. John D. Ashcroft (R-Mo.) yesterday launched a drive
to block Senate confirmation of David Satcher as surgeon general, setting the
stage for a potentially rancorous fight over his nomination after Congress
reconvenes next Tuesday.	LEAD
At a news conference sponsored by the conservative journal Human Events,
Ashcroft and representatives of the Christian Coalition and the Family Research
Council objected in particular to Satcher's support for President Clinton's
stand opposing passage of legislation to ban what critics describe as
"partial-birth" abortions.	MAIN
"The nation's chief medical officer should be above reproach," Ashcroft said.
"Unfortunately, this is not the case with this nominee. Dr. Satcher joins with
the president in support of 'partial birth' abortion, a position that places him
squarely at odds with the professional and ethical judgment of the American
Medical Association."	VERB
But in separate statements yesterday, the AMA and American Academy of Family
Physicians reaffirmed their support for Satcher and called for his prompt
confirmation.	VERB
"The American Medical Association continues to enthusiastically support Dr.
David Satcher. . . . He will bring a wealth of experience from both the private
and public sectors to the office," said AMA President-elect Nancy W. Dickey. The
surgeon general's office "has been vacant far too long," and "the American
public needs a credible voice they can turn to in times of a public health
crisis," she added.	VERB
Satcher, a former president of Meharry Medical College who has served as
director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention since 1993, was
nominated last year by Clinton. His nomination was approved by the Senate Labor
and Human Resources Committee and he appeared to have broad support in the
Senate. But final Senate action was held up, largely because of conservatives'
abortion-related objections.	PREV
While Ashcroft indicated he will keep trying to hold up action on the
nomination, the timing is up to Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.), who
said in a CNN interview Sunday that he intends to seek a vote "in the first
couple of weeks" after Congress reconvenes. He would have to consider any "new
information available from Sen. Ashcroft or others," Lott said. "But I think at
some point the responsible thing to do is to call it on up. Let's have a debate
on his qualifications and his positions and have a vote," Lott added.	VERB
Lott appeared to be a major focus of the conservatives' effort to derail
Satcher's nomination.	EVAL
Randy Tate, executive director of the Christian Coalition,
noted that Lott said Congress is the proper arena for action on abortion in a
letter to the Republican National Committee before it voted last weekend against
penalizing GOP candidates who oppose the ban. So Lott should "exercise
leadership in the U.S. Senate and defend these innocent children by defeating
this nomination," Tate said.	VERB
Meanwhile, on another contentious nomination, the Justice Department disagreed
with two influential senators who contend that Bill Lann Lee, whose nomination
as assistant attorney general for civil rights was stalled in the Senate last
year, cannot serve in an acting capacity in the job beyond 120 days.	CIRC
In letters to Senate Judiciary Committee Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Sen. Robert
C. Byrd (D-W.Va.), Assistant Attorney General Andrew Fois said it has "long been
the position" of the Justice Department that it does not fall under the 120-day
limitation prescribed by the Vacancies Act. In any case, the limitation would no
longer apply when Clinton renominates Lee, as he has said he will do, Fois said.	VERB
There was no immediate response from Hatch or Byrd.	CONS

Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen said today that he is satisfied Beijing
will not continue sales of anti-ship missiles to Iran as he wrapped up a
four-day visit here that underscored improving Sino-American military ties.	LEAD
At a news conference before departing for Tokyo, Cohen described his meetings
with Chinese officials as "warm and productive." Most notably, U.S. officials
said, the Chinese military granted Cohen an unprecedented peek at a heretofore
secret air defense command center and concluded its first formal agreement with
the Pentagon -- a protocol designed to avert clashes or accidents at sea.	MAIN
Cohen declined, however, to say explicitly whether Chinese Defense Minister Chi
Haotian had agreed to cancel any existing missile deals with Iran. China
reportedly has sold C-801 and C-802 anti-ship cruise missiles to Iran in
defiance of U.S. concerns that they could threaten Persian Gulf shipping, and it
remains unclear if China has contracted to sell Iran any additional missiles.	MAIN
Since then, U.S. and Chinese officials have labored to improve ties despite
domestic opposition, lingering mistrust and strong disagreement over Taiwan --
an island state of 21 million people that China considers a rogue province and
the United States is legally bound to support. Cohen's visit here -- the fifth
leg of a seven-nation tour of East Asia -- has built on a groundswell of good
feelings engendered by the October meeting in Washington between President
Clinton and Chinese President Jiang Zemin.	PREV
At his news conference, Cohen held out the prospect that the U.S. embargo on
military sales to China might someday be lifted -- an embargo imposed in 1989,
following China's bloody crackdown on student-led democracy demonstrations in
Beijing. He said the Chinese had asked to buy spare parts for unarmed U.S.-built
Blackhawk helicopters purchased in the mid-1980s.	MAIN
On Monday, Cohen tried to calm Chinese concerns that strengthened U.S. defense
ties with Japan, Australia and, recently, the Philippines and Singapore may be
designed to contain China. "Today, China is an Asian power and rightfully so,"
he told an audience at the Academy of Military Science. "The United States does
not fear this, nor do we view China as an adversary."	CIRC
Defense Minister Chi responded that the United States also should not fear
China's push to become a regional power. "It is groundless to describe the
modernization drive of China's army, which is for the sake of the country's
economic construction and of a defensive nature, as an unstable factor in the
region," he said.	VERB
U.S. officials noted also that China has begun sharing some information on
events in North Korea, where a food shortage and an unpredictable Communist
regime have combined to raise fears for the stability of the Korean peninsula.	CIRC
Military contacts between the two nations, nearly nonexistent in 1996, have
ballooned to almost weekly visits by Chinese officers to the United States and
vice versa, U.S. officials said. On Monday, Chinese army chief of staff Fu
Quanyou invited Gen. Henry Shelton, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff,
to China later this year.	CIRC
Cohen's visit to Beijing's Air Defense Command Center Monday was the highlight
of his trip. Arranged just days before he arrived, the visit gave him and U.S.
military experts a glance into the heart of China's defense structure. Cohen was
accompanied by 14 other U.S. officials, including Adam. Joseph W. Prueher,
commander of U.S. Pacific forces.	CIRC
The eight-story building, fashioned Soviet-style from concrete, is situated in
southeastern Beijing behind a lightly guarded gate, according to a U.S. official
traveling with Cohen. Commanded by a lieutenant general, the center is
responsible for defending the skies in a 200-mile radius around China's capital.
It has the ability to coordinate surface-to-air missile batteries; to track
thousands of military and commercial planes in the region daily; and, most
significantly, to generate an integrated response to a potential crisis, the
official said.	CIRC
"It was an interesting mixture of old and new . . . of technology from the late
1950s and early 1980s," the official said. "Some places had computers with large
displays. In other places, I smelled vacuum tubes" -- electronic components that
preceded transistors.	VERB
One of the murkiest areas of China's military scope is its sales of components
of weapons of mass destruction. Last week, Clinton certified that China has
stopped selling nuclear-weapons-related material -- a problem that bedeviled
U.S.-Chinese relations for years. U.S. officials say they are still concerned
that China is exporting conventional missiles.	CIRC
On Monday, Cohen departed from the advance text of his speech at the military
academy to express pleasure that Chi had reiterated assurances that missile
sales to Iran had been halted. That pledge was made just before the Washington
summit meeting, but Cohen said on his arrival in Beijing Saturday that he
intended to follow up on the matter.	MAIN
U.S. officials said there was some confusion about whether China would fulfill
existing missile contracts to Iran or cancel them as well, but Cohen declared:
"I believe that we have assurances that such sales will not continue in the
future."	VERB
At the same time, he warned that any disruption of the flow of oil from the
Persian Gulf as a result of technology provided by the Chinese would have "a
damaging effect on China's relations with many countries around the world,
including the United States."	VERB
Nevertheless, Cohen's sojourn here highlighted significant advances in one of
Washington's most sensitive military relationships -- between the world's most
powerful country and its most populous one	EVAL
Less than two years ago, a U.S.
aircraft carrier battle group was facing off against Chinese forces on military
exercises near the Strait of Taiwan, and tensions were high in both capitals.	PREV
Still, the United States appears more eager than China to broaden the
relationship.	EVAL
In recent months, U.S. military officials have suggested a number
of initiatives on which the Chinese have either failed to respond or have
watered down. Among other things, U.S. officials have asked that American and
Chinese pilots be allowed to exchange visits; the Americans are particularly
interested in flying China's new Russian-made SU-27 fighter jet. The Chinese
have balked at the request, U.S. officials said. Cohen also called today for the
two sides to visit each other's nuclear-weapons sites, and he noted that the
Chinese were "studying" the request.	CIRC

Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu is to arrive in Washington to discuss
Middle East peace this week after having whittled down expectations so
insistently that even any sign of progress may be greeted as a ray of hope.	LEAD
His conservative cabinet members spent much of the week preced ing the premier's
departure, set for Monday, elaborating what they would not do to make peace with
the Palestinians, where they would not do it and according to what timetable
they would see it not get done.	CIRC
For Netanyahu, who has long regarded the 1993 Israeli-Palestinian peace accords
with distaste -- even though he has pledged to carry them out -- it is nothing
new that his political opponents accuse him of dragging his feet on peace or
subverting it.	HIST
What has changed in recent weeks is his government's standing, and his own hold
on power. Neither seems to bode well for the peace prospects, many analysts here
say.	EXPE
The resignation two weeks ago of Foreign Minister David Levy who, within the
rightist cabinet was considered a moderate, set the tone for the cabinet moves
that followed. The departure of Levy, who controls five seats in the Israeli
parliament, left the government with a 61-59 parliamentary majority and
significantly more susceptible to hard-line pressure, particularly on the
land-for-peace formula at the heart of the Middle East peace process.	CIRC
Many conservatives in the Jewish state long have been uneasy with the
land-for-peace trade-off, by which Israel would return Arab territory it
captured in 1967 in exchange for guarantees of peace from the Arabs, seeing it
as tantamount to forfeiting security. They say Israel should not withdraw any
more troops from the West Bank until the Palestinians make significant progress
on a range of security issues, including a crackdown on suspected terrorists
operating from the territory.	CIRC
"It's become land for war, land for bloodshed, land for terror," David
Bar-Illan, a top adviser to Netanyahu, said in an interview.	VERB
Guided by that outlook, Netanyahu's cabinet staked out its position in a series
of actions before his meeting Tuesday with President Clinton.	CIRC
First, the prime minister declared that even if the government decided to go
ahead with any pullback of Israeli troops, it would have to wait -- possibly for
months -- until the Palestinians complied with previous commitments on security
and other matters that Israel contends have not yet been met.	MAIN
Next, the cabinet published an extensive list of accusations of Palestinian
noncompliance, further emphasizing that no withdrawal would occur until the
points were addressed. Finally, the cabinet declared large chunks of the West
Bank as areas of Israel's "vital interests," suggesting they are nonnegotiable
in any discussions of an eventual Palestinian state. Today, the cabinet delayed
a decision on the land plan.	MAIN
Moreover, Israeli officials have said Netanyahu will not present Clinton with a
map of the West Bank indicating from what areas Israeli troops might be
withdrawn next. The White House has wanted such a proposal.	MAIN
The Clinton administration and left-wing critics of Netanyahu in Israel see the
Israelis' moves primarily as bargaining positions but unhelpful nonetheless.	CIRC
Netanyahu "has a policy on the peace process -- to keep putting it off and
putting it off," said Galia Golan, an activist for the advocacy group Peace Now.
"He was and is opposed to [the 1993 accords] and believes in the idea of a
Greater Israel."	VERB
But that did not mitigate the political reality in Israel that has Netanyahu in
such a bind -- that any Israeli pullback from significant chunks of West Bank
land could cause hard-liners to bolt from the cabinet, triggering the
government's collapse.	EVAL
"There is now a paradigm of a weak prime minister who claims not to have enough
power to move in a serious direction and can only move incrementally," said
Yaron Ezrahi, an Israeli political scientist.	VERB
"And this means the Palestinians and Americans must choose between accepting [a
small concession] and getting as much as one can get at this stage, even if it's
contrary to some expectations and a sense of fairness, or trying to force a
conflict that will either strengthen Netanyahu by making him appear as a hero to
the Israeli right or destabilize his government with all the uncertainties that
new elections and a campaign carry. It's a very difficult choice."	VERB
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, scheduled to meet with Clinton two days after
Netanyahu, has reacted in generally subdued tones while not hiding his
frustration with the Israeli government's decisions. At the same time, he has
characterized the Washington meetings as a last gasp for the peace process,
warning that failure could provoke a renewed popular uprising by the
Palestinians against Israeli military occupation.	CONS
That warning has been repeated incessantly in the Israeli media, broadcast along
with reports that the Palestinians and Israeli forces are covertly preparing for
new hostilities. The reports are dismaying to Jews and Palestinians here, who
have been shown by clear majorities in public opinion polls to favor progress in
the peace process.	CONS
"It's easy to say the Arabs are to blame but they'll just say we're to blame,"
said Mikhail Bykov, an Israeli in the West Bank settlement of Qiryat Arba, south
of Jerusalem. "There's no alternative to the peace process. If the other side's
making steps toward peace, there's no reason we can't do the same."	VERB
Mindful of that strand of Israeli public opinion, and its corollary in the
United States, Netanyahu has taken pains to launch a full-scale public relations
offensive, insisting that he wants progress on peace -- but not at any cost.	CIRC
In his effort to remind people of a need to press the Palestinians on the issue
of terror, Netanyahu is including as part of his official delegation in
Washington two relatives of Israelis killed in terror attacks.	CONS
One is the widow of a man stabbed three years ago by a Palestinian who is now a
police officer in Gaza, according to Bar-Illan, Netanyahu's adviser. The other
is the mother of a man killed near Jerusalem in 1996 by Palestinians now living
in Jericho, in the West Bank, he said. In both cases, Arafat's Palestinian
Authority has done nothing to bring the killers to justice, according to
Bar-Illan.	CONS
Arafat, meanwhile, will press his own public relations offensive, meeting with
French President Jacques Chirac, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and other
dignitaries on stops before he reaches Washington.	CONS

JERUSALEM, Jan. 18-
 


Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu is to arrive in Washington to discuss 
Middle East peace this week after having whittled down expectations so 
insistently that even any sign of progress may be greeted as a ray of hope.	LEAD
His conservative cabinet members spent much of the week preced ing the premier's 
departure, set for Monday, elaborating what they would not do to make peace with 
the Palestinians, where they would not do it and according to what timetable 
they would see it not get done.	CIRC
For Netanyahu, who has long regarded the 1993 Israeli-Palestinian peace accords 
with distaste -- even though he has pledged to carry them out -- it is nothing 
new that his political opponents accuse him of dragging his feet on peace or 
subverting it.	HIST
What has changed in recent weeks is his government's standing, and his own hold 
on power. Neither seems to bode well for the peace prospects, many analysts here 
say.	VERB
The resignation two weeks ago of Foreign Minister David Levy who, within the 
rightist cabinet was considered a moderate, set the tone for the cabinet moves 
that followed. The departure of Levy, who controls five seats in the Israeli 
parliament, left the government with a 61-59 parliamentary majority and 
significantly more susceptible to hard-line pressure, particularly on the 
land-for-peace formula at the heart of the Middle East peace process.	PREV
Many conservatives in the Jewish state long have been uneasy with the 
land-for-peace trade-off, by which Israel would return Arab territory it 
captured in 1967 in exchange for guarantees of peace from the Arabs, seeing it 
as tantamount to forfeiting security. They say Israel should not withdraw any 
more troops from the West Bank until the Palestinians make significant progress 
on a range of security issues, including a crackdown on suspected terrorists 
operating from the territory.	CIRC
"It's become land for war, land for bloodshed, land for terror," David 
Bar-Illan, a top adviser to Netanyahu, said in an interview.	VERB
Guided by that outlook, Netanyahu's cabinet staked out its position in a series 
of actions before his meeting Tuesday with President Clinton.	CIRC
First, the prime minister declared that even if the government decided to go 
ahead with any pullback of Israeli troops, it would have to wait -- possibly for 
months -- until the Palestinians complied with previous commitments on security 
and other matters that Israel contends have not yet been met.	MAIN
Next, the cabinet published an extensive list of accusations of Palestinian 
noncompliance, further emphasizing that no withdrawal would occur until the 
points were addressed. Finally, the cabinet declared large chunks of the West 
Bank as areas of Israel's "vital interests," suggesting they are nonnegotiable 
in any discussions of an eventual Palestinian state. Today, the cabinet delayed 
a decision on the land plan.	MAIN
Moreover, Israeli officials have said Netanyahu will not present Clinton with a 
map of the West Bank indicating from what areas Israeli troops might be 
withdrawn next. The White House has wanted such a proposal.	MAIN
The Clinton administration and left-wing critics of Netanyahu in Israel see the 
Israelis' moves primarily as bargaining positions but unhelpful nonetheless.	CIRC
Netanyahu "has a policy on the peace process -- to keep putting it off and 
putting it off," said Galia Golan, an activist for the advocacy group Peace Now. 
"He was and is opposed to [the 1993 accords] and believes in the idea of a 
Greater Israel."	VERB
But that did not mitigate the political reality in Israel that has Netanyahu in 
such a bind -- that any Israeli pullback from significant chunks of West Bank 
land could cause hard-liners to bolt from the cabinet, triggering the 
government's collapse.	EVAL
"There is now a paradigm of a weak prime minister who claims not to have enough 
power to move in a serious direction and can only move incrementally," said 
Yaron Ezrahi, an Israeli political scientist.	VERB
"And this means the Palestinians and Americans must choose between accepting [a 
small concession] and getting as much as one can get at this stage, even if it's 
contrary to some expectations and a sense of fairness, or trying to force a 
conflict that will either strengthen Netanyahu by making him appear as a hero to 
the Israeli right or destabilize his government with all the uncertainties that 
new elections and a campaign carry. It's a very difficult choice."	VERB
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, scheduled to meet with Clinton two days after 
Netanyahu, has reacted in generally subdued tones while not hiding his 
frustration with the Israeli government's decisions. At the same time, he has 
characterized the Washington meetings as a last gasp for the peace process, 
warning that failure could provoke a renewed popular uprising by the 
Palestinians against Israeli military occupation.	CIRC
That warning has been repeated incessantly in the Israeli media, broadcast along 
with reports that the Palestinians and Israeli forces are covertly preparing for 
new hostilities. The reports are dismaying to Jews and Palestinians here, who 
have been shown by clear majorities in public opinion polls to favor progress in 
the peace process.	CIRC
"It's easy to say the Arabs are to blame but they'll just say we're to blame," 
said Mikhail Bykov, an Israeli in the West Bank settlement of Qiryat Arba, south 
of Jerusalem. "There's no alternative to the peace process. If the other side's 
making steps toward peace, there's no reason we can't do the same."	VERB
Mindful of that strand of Israeli public opinion, and its corollary in the 
United States, Netanyahu has taken pains to launch a full-scale public relations 
offensive, insisting that he wants progress on peace -- but not at any cost.	CIRC
In his effort to remind people of a need to press the Palestinians on the issue 
of terror, Netanyahu is including as part of his official delegation in 
Washington two relatives of Israelis killed in terror attacks.	CIRC
One is the widow of a man stabbed three years ago by a Palestinian who is now a 
police officer in Gaza, according to Bar-Illan, Netanyahu's adviser. The other 
is the mother of a man killed near Jerusalem in 1996 by Palestinians now living 
in Jericho, in the West Bank, he said. In both cases, Arafat's Palestinian 
Authority has done nothing to bring the killers to justice, according to 
Bar-Illan.	HIST
Arafat, meanwhile, will press his own public relations offensive, meeting with 
French President Jacques Chirac, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and other 
dignitaries on stops before he reaches Washington.	CIRC

Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, persuaded by the Clinton administration peace
team to pay a groundbreaking visit to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum next
week, angrily canceled the plan after museum officials rebuffed his overture.	LEAD
Conceived as a gesture of reconciliation by U.S. deputy special Mideast envoy
Aaron Miller, Arafat's visit would have been the first to the exhibition on Nazi
genocide by a major Arab leader and a highly symbolic acknowledgment of the
defining event of the century for many Jews. By the time plans for the visit had
fallen apart yesterday, the episode had become the latest irritant in the
faltering talks between Israel and the Palestinians.	MAIN
Arafat is coming to Washington for talks on Thursday with President Clinton, who
will also meet Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu next week in an effort
to inject new urgency into their stalled negotiations.	MAIN
Miller and his superior,
Dennis Ross, both of whom serve on the panel that functions as the Holocaust
museum's board of directors, suggested the visit to Arafat through
intermediaries after believing they had won the consent of Miles Lerman, a death
camp survivor who chairs the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.	CIRC
But museum sources said members of the American Jewish community warned Lerman
and museum Director Walter Reich that "this [Arafat] is Hitler incarnate," as
one official put it, and must not be welcomed in the memorial to Hitler's
victims.	CIRC
When Lerman and Reich informed Arafat he could visit the museum only as
an individual, without the special measures for security and protocol routinely
accorded world leaders, Arafat struck the visit from his schedule.	CIRC
Lerman, reached at his New Jersey home, said the subject of Arafat and Israel's
talks with the Palestinian Authority still profoundly divided U.S. and world
Jewry and "we believe the museum should not get involved in a political dispute
where half of the people are for something and half are against it."	VERB
"If and when the day will come when peace will be established between the state
of Israel and the Palestinians then we will be more than happy to receive Arafat
as a leader and celebrate that achievement," Lerman said.	VERB
Among Arafat's advisers, ever sensitive to loss of face, a tightly restrained
sense of grievance prevailed yesterday.	CONS
"We didn't create this idea," Nabil Abu Irdineh, who notified Arafat of the snub
late Thursday night, said in a telephone interview from the West Bank city of
Nablus. "He said yes. They are saying no. It's as simple as that. We have been
extending our hands since the days of [Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak] Rabin,
and our hands are still slapped. Somebody is still living in the past."	VERB
Lerman and museum spokeswoman Mary Morrison emphasized that the federally funded
memorial cannot lawfully turn away any individual and would make no attempt to
do so if Arafat simply turned up at the popular tourist draw.	CIRC
"The doors are open from 10 in the morning to 5:30 in the afternoon," Lerman
said.	VERB
But Lerman also added that the museum would not extend Arafat the formal
courtesies that are routine for other world leaders, and museum officials said
they well understood that withholding special coordination effectively rendered
the visit impossible.	CONS
"You're obviously not going to have Yasser Arafat standing in line to get a
pass," one official said.	VERB
Arafat and his aides had approached the visit gingerly, according to several
people directly involved in the plans. Competing self-images of victimhood have
long prevented Israelis and Arabs from acknowledging the full weight of each
other's historical tragedies, and many Arab leaders have resisted efforts to
lure them to the museum and the similar Yad Vashem memorial in Jerusalem.	CIRC
Miller and Ross felt strongly, according to officials familiar with their views,
that a quiet visit to the memorial could mark a psychological breakthrough for
skeptical Jews and help Arafat understand the fears of an adversary he has
experienced primarily as a regional superpower.	CIRC
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, her spokesman James P. Rubin said in
an interview yesterday, routinely encourages world leaders to visit the memorial
but "with regard to Chairman Arafat, it is particularly important that he visit
because the horrors of the Holocaust were a defining event in Jewish history."	VERB
Among those who helped overcome the Palestinian leader's initial concerns were
former congressman Wayne Owens, who heads the Center for Middle East Peace and
Economic Cooperation. Owens participated in a conference call last week with
Mohammed Rasheed, a key aide to Arafat, and sent a memo, he said, arguing that
"it would be a nice symbolic thing for him to do, an appropriate gesture."	VERB
Hani Masri, a Palestinian American businessman who often represents Arafat
informally in Washington, said he told Arafat all the arguments of Miller and
Ross "and Arafat said fine."	VERB
"I thought we should concentrate on positive things," Masri said, "and having
him be the first Arab leader to visit the museum would bring our communities
together."	VERB
But Thursday night, Lerman told Masri that the museum would not cooperate.	CIRC
"Hani called me at home, he's almost crying," said another former official who
played an intermediary role.	VERB
An Arab diplomat in Washington familiar with the episode, said, "It shows that
some people have not got over their complexes yet." Associates of Arafat
described him as furious.	VERB
Lerman, for his part, said he intended no slight.	CIRC
"I would be heartbroken if the peace process fell apart," he said, emphasizing
that he spoke for himself and not the museum. "Arafat is the leader of the
Palestinian people, and I believe he is trying his best."	VERB

The nation's census director, after fighting with Congress for two years over
how to conduct the next population count, announced yesterday she is quitting,
leaving unfilled a critical leadership position as the nation heads into the
2000 census.	LEAD
Martha Farnsworth Riche said that the dispute with Republican congressional
leaders did not directly lead to her resignation, but several people who know
her well said she was frustrated by the political battle and the prospect that
it would continue for another two years.	MAIN
"This is going to be a brutal fight," said Rep. Thomas C. Sawyer (D-Ohio)	VERB
who
has been closely involved in the census and is among those who believes the
ongoing debate played a role in Riche's departure.	CIRC
Replacing Riche will be, by
all accounts, enormously difficult, given the disagreement over the census that
divides the Clinton administration and the Republican leadership in Congress,
whose approval is necessary for Senate confirmation.	EXPE
The dispute centers on a technical question with broad political repercussions:
Republican leaders, particularly in the House, are adamantly opposed to the
administration's plan to combine head counts with statistical estimates to
arrive at a national population count.	CIRC
Riche, backed by a National Academy of Sciences panel, has argued steadfastly
that in order to improve its accuracy, the census should rely more than ever
before on sampling, which gathers information from a random selection of
households and then uses that to extrapolate characteristics for a larger group.
The idea is to get a better gauge for accounting for millions of Americans,
predominantly poor and minorities, who have been missed when the government has
relied almost exclusively on a door-to-door head count.	CIRC
Sampling, because it would increase the numbers of minorities counted in the
census, is generally considered likely to benefit Democrats more than
Republicans.	CIRC
With that issue unresolved, the bureau is heading into the final planning stages
for the 2000 census, a $ 4 billion effort that will employ 300,000 people.	CONS
Rep. Dan Miller (R-Fla.), who heads the House subcommittee that oversees the
census, said he was startled by Riche's departure.	VERB
"I have expressed my concern that we are rapidly headed toward a failed census
in 2000," he said in a statement. "Riche's sudden departure adds to my anxiety.
. . ."	VERB
Riche said yesterday she was leaving to pursue other interests, including
writing and teaching, and an administration source said she had been offered a
lecturing position at Princeton University.	MAIN
"I have done what I came to do," she said, citing improved methods of collecting
and managing the nation's statistical system. She said she had not made a
commitment to the administration to stay through the 2000 census.	MAIN
Riche has in the past expressed her frustration that the controversy over
sampling had forced her to focus most of her attention and energy on the 2000
head count, while the agency is also responsible for numerous other projects.	PREV
"I want a life," she said. "This is a tough job. I can't tell you how many
people say, 'That's a thankless job.' Why would somebody want to stay in a
thankless job when they've done what they wanted to do?"	PREV
Riche, 58, an economist who helped found American Demographics magazine, took
office in 1994, the day before the electoral victory that gave the Republican
Party control of Congress.	HIST
Others say Riche was in an nearly impossible role.	VERB
"The difficulty in that position is being stuck between the scholarly community,
advising her how to take a good census, and the political community, reacting to
political forces," said William O'Hare, a demographer with the Annie E. Casey
Foundation.	VERB
A Commerce Department spokesman said the administration would begin the process
of appointing an acting director soon and then search for a permanent
replacement.	VERB
However, several congressional sources expressed concern that replacing Riche
with someone who meets Republican approval could be difficult, because any
nominee's position on sampling could emerge as a litmus test. It is unlikely the
White House would nominate a successor who did not support sampling, and equally
unlikely Republican leaders would look favorably on such a candidate.	VERB
That raises the prospect that the position could go unfilled for a long period,
even as the Census Bureau conducts its rehearsal of the census this spring and
begins final preparations for the 2000 count.	EXPE
According to the administration's plan, census employees would attempt to
collect a questionnaire from every household, but then contact a statistically
representative sample of people who failed to respond. The results of that
sample would be used to arrive at a total population figure and the race, income
and other characteristics of those who could not be counted directly.	CONS
Republicans, particularly those in the House, have maintained that such a
process is subject to manipulation, less accurate than a traditional head count
and unconstitutional.	VERB
In the appropriations bill approved late last year,
Congress allowed the bureau to test sampling this spring, but vowed to renew the
fight before the 2000 census.	CIRC

The Senate yesterday confirmed three federal judges in its first official action 
of the year, slightly reducing the backlog of nominations that has drawn 
criticism from both President Clinton and Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist.	LEAD
But the dispute over the Senate's pace in dealing with nominations continued, 
with Republicans defending the record while Democrats charged the GOP with 
politicizing the process.	CIRC
By a vote of 67 to 30, the Senate confirmed Ann L. Aiken for a U.S. District 
Court vacancy in Oregon. Her nomination had been held up for months by Sen. Mike 
Enzi (R-Wyo.), who accused her of leniency in sentencing a child molester when 
she was a state court judge.	MAIN
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) said that while 
Aiken would not have been his choice, she "demonstrated to me that she 
understands the proper role of a federal judge in our constitutional system."	VERB
By voice vote, the Senate also confirmed Richard W. Story for the federal 
district court in Georgia and Barry G. Silverman of Arizona for the Ninth U.S. 
Circuit Court of Appeals, which has jurisdiction over California and other 
western states.	MAIN
Yesterday's action reduces the list of judicial vacancies to 85, or about 10 
percent of the federal judiciary. The Senate confirmed 17 judges in 1996 and 36 
judges last year, drawing accusations of foot-dragging from Democrats. Hatch and 
others said Clinton was mostly to blame because he was slow to make nominations.	CONS
More than 50 nominations are pending before the Senate, including 12 made on 
Tuesday.	CIRC
The long-simmering dispute over the Senate's performance on nominations came to 
a head when Rehnquist warned in a year-end report that the judicial vacancies 
were threatening the nation's "quality of justice" and the White House pounced 
on his words to mount a campaign for speedier action.	PREV
With early decisions on Aiken, Story and Silverman, Senate Republicans tried to 
show they are not delaying confirmations.	EVAL
If the White House intends to wage a battle over the nominations to portray the 
Republicans as anti-women and anti-minority, as newspapers have reported, then 
that is "certainly a poor way to begin what I hope will turn out to be a 
cooperative effort to confirm federal judges," Hatch said.	VERB
Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (Vt.), the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary panel, 
responded that Republicans are jeopardizing the "independence and integrity" of 
the judiciary by trying to hold up Clinton's nominees and threatening other 
steps, including House threats of impeachment proceedings against liberal 
judges.	VERB
"Partisan and narrow ideological efforts to impose political litmus tests on 
judicial nominees and to shut down the judiciary must stop," Leahy said.	VERB
In another contested nomination, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.) 
said he intends to seek a vote next week on David Satcher as surgeon general. 
Some Republicans have threatened to try to block the nomination because of 
Satcher's support for administration policy opposing legislation to ban a 
procedure that some call "partial-birth" abortion.	VERB
The Senate yesterday confirmed three federal judges in its first official action
of the year, slightly reducing the backlog of nominations that has drawn
criticism from both President Clinton and Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist.	LEAD
But the dispute over the Senate's pace in dealing with nominations continued,
with Republicans defending the record while Democrats charged the GOP with
politicizing the process.	CONS
By a vote of 67 to 30, the Senate confirmed Ann L. Aiken for a U.S. District
Court vacancy in Oregon. Her nomination had been held up for months by Sen. Mike
Enzi (R-Wyo.), who accused her of leniency in sentencing a child molester when
she was a state court judge.	MAIN
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) said that while
Aiken would not have been his choice, she "demonstrated to me that she
understands the proper role of a federal judge in our constitutional system."	VERB
By voice vote, the Senate also confirmed Richard W. Story for the federal
district court in Georgia and Barry G. Silverman of Arizona for the Ninth U.S.
Circuit Court of Appeals, which has jurisdiction over California and other
western states.	MAIN
Yesterday's action reduces the list of judicial vacancies to 85, or about 10
percent of the federal judiciary. The Senate confirmed 17 judges in 1996 and 36
judges last year, drawing accusations of foot-dragging from Democrats. Hatch and
others said Clinton was mostly to blame because he was slow to make nominations.	CONS
More than 50 nominations are pending before the Senate, including 12 made on
Tuesday.	CIRC
The long-simmering dispute over the Senate's performance on nominations came to
a head when Rehnquist warned in a year-end report that the judicial vacancies
were threatening the nation's "quality of justice" and the White House pounced
on his words to mount a campaign for speedier action.	CIRC
With early decisions on Aiken, Story and Silverman, Senate Republicans tried to
show they are not delaying confirmations.	EVAL
If the White House intends to wage a battle over the nominations to portray the
Republicans as anti-women and anti-minority, as newspapers have reported, then
that is "certainly a poor way to begin what I hope will turn out to be a
cooperative effort to confirm federal judges," Hatch said.	VERB
Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (Vt.), the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary panel,
responded that Republicans are jeopardizing the "independence and integrity" of
the judiciary by trying to hold up Clinton's nominees and threatening other
steps, including House threats of impeachment proceedings against liberal
judges.	VERB
"Partisan and narrow ideological efforts to impose political litmus tests on
judicial nominees and to shut down the judiciary must stop," Leahy said.	VERB
In another contested nomination, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.)
said he intends to seek a vote next week on David Satcher as surgeon general.
Some Republicans have threatened to try to block the nomination because of
Satcher's support for administration policy opposing legislation to ban a
procedure that some call "partial-birth" abortion.	VERB

RAMALLAH, West Bank, Feb.9-
 


Five months after Washington and Bogota reached an agreement allowing renewal of 
U.S. aid to Colombia's military, its army has received no funding because it has 
failed to provide U.S. officials with information that would enable units using 
the aid to be purged of suspected human rights abusers.	LEAD
The agreement, signed Aug. 1, permits the United States to supply ammunition, 
vehicles, and communication and navigational equipment to the military. They 
were to be used to fight drug trafficking in a specific geographic area that 
includes most of the southern half of the country. But because of the army's 
poor human rights record in the past decade, the United States made its help 
conditional on the Colombian military's human rights performance and established 
a joint vetting process for units receiving the aid.	CIRC
The agreement says the Colombian government is to provide semiannual 
certification to the U.S. Embassy "regarding any ongoing formal investigations 
or prosecutions, or any penalties applied, with respect to gross violations of 
human rights by any member of the units operating in the designated area."	CIRC
The aid was expected to total about $ 37 million in fiscal 1998, but U.S. 
officials said the delays in designating and vetting the units could mean less 
aid would be disbursed.	VERB
Aid to the Colombian military was formally cut off in 1996, after the U.S. 
government, for the second year in a row, said Colombia had failed to cooperate 
fully in fighting drug trafficking. The second failure to be certified triggered 
the cutoff, but President Clinton issued a waiver allowing aid to resume after 
an agreement was reached on how and where it would be used.	HIST
Colombia is one of the world's most violent countries. Guerrillas in the 
longest-running Marxist insurgency in the hemisphere are battling the army, as 
well as the right-wing paramilitary organizations that it often tolerates. All 
sides are involved, to varying degrees, in the lucrative drug trade.	CIRC
According to news service reports, at least 24 people were killed yesterday and 
Thursday in attacks by guerrillas and paramilitaries.	PREV
Guerrillas reportedly attacked a remote police post in the northern province of 
Magdalena, killing two policemen, a 3-year-old girl and a 17-year-old boy. A 
guerrilla was also reported killed. And in a rash of four attacks in the 
northwest, paramilitary groups killed nine people, the reports said.	PREV
While U.S. aid to Colombia is supposed to fight drug trafficking, the military 
can use it in areas where the leftist guerrillas are active. The likelihood that 
U.S. funds would be used for the counterinsurgency campaign made the 
U.S.-Colombian agreement controversial within the administration.	CIRC
The navy and air force -- unlike the army -- moved quickly to name and vet their 
units, and have received several million dollars in aid, according to U.S. 
government officials. But most of the aid was to go to the army. Officials said 
they were unable to determine exactly how much money had gone to the navy and 
air force.	PREV
"The army is not adequately vetting its units at this time," said a U.S. 
official monitoring the aid. "They did give us a list of units to receive aid, 
but it was so confused, we had to send it back to them and ask them to clean it 
up. That was just before Christmas, and we hope to hear back from them soon."	VERB
Another U.S. official said the Colombian army had difficulty finding any units 
without serious human rights violations, thus slowing the process.	VERB
"The question is, is there anyone we can deal with out there?" the official 
asked. "There are so many problems; it is very complicated."	VERB
Fidel Cano, a spokesman for the Colombian Embassy here, acknowledged the delays 
in compiling the army's information but said putting together such data as who 
belongs to what unit and which human rights investigations are underway is 
complicated.	VERB
"Our Ministry of Defense is working very hard with the U.S. Embassy in Bogota to 
get the information together," Cano said. "We are giving it a high priority; it 
is not something that we have forgotten."	VERB
Five months after Washington and Bogota reached an agreement allowing renewal of
U.S. aid to Colombia's military, its army has received no funding because it has
failed to provide U.S. officials with information that would enable units using
the aid to be purged of suspected human rights abusers.	LEAD
The agreement, signed Aug. 1, permits the United States to supply ammunition,
vehicles, and communication and navigational equipment to the military. They
were to be used to fight drug trafficking in a specific geographic area that
includes most of the southern half of the country. But because of the army's
poor human rights record in the past decade, the United States made its help
conditional on the Colombian military's human rights performance and established
a joint vetting process for units receiving the aid.	CIRC
The agreement says the Colombian government is to provide semiannual
certification to the U.S. Embassy "regarding any ongoing formal investigations
or prosecutions, or any penalties applied, with respect to gross violations of
human rights by any member of the units operating in the designated area."	CIRC
The aid was expected to total about $ 37 million in fiscal 1998, but U.S.
officials said the delays in designating and vetting the units could mean less
aid would be disbursed.	CIRC
Aid to the Colombian military was formally cut off in 1996, after the U.S.
government, for the second year in a row, said Colombia had failed to cooperate
fully in fighting drug trafficking. The second failure to be certified triggered
the cutoff, but President Clinton issued a waiver allowing aid to resume after
an agreement was reached on how and where it would be used.	HIST
Colombia is one of the world's most violent countries. Guerrillas in the
longest-running Marxist insurgency in the hemisphere are battling the army, as
well as the right-wing paramilitary organizations that it often tolerates. All
sides are involved, to varying degrees, in the lucrative drug trade.	HIST
According to news service reports, at least 24 people were killed yesterday and
Thursday in attacks by guerrillas and paramilitaries.	CIRC
Guerrillas reportedly attacked a remote police post in the northern province of
Magdalena, killing two policemen, a 3-year-old girl and a 17-year-old boy. A
guerrilla was also reported killed. And in a rash of four attacks in the
northwest, paramilitary groups killed nine people, the reports said.	CIRC
While U.S. aid to Colombia is supposed to fight drug trafficking, the military
can use it in areas where the leftist guerrillas are active. The likelihood that
U.S. funds would be used for the counterinsurgency campaign made the
U.S.-Colombian agreement controversial within the administration.	CIRC
The navy and air force -- unlike the army -- moved quickly to name and vet their
units, and have received several million dollars in aid, according to U.S.
government officials. But most of the aid was to go to the army. Officials said
they were unable to determine exactly how much money had gone to the navy and
air force.	PREV
"The army is not adequately vetting its units at this time," said a U.S.
official monitoring the aid. "They did give us a list of units to receive aid,
but it was so confused, we had to send it back to them and ask them to clean it
up. That was just before Christmas, and we hope to hear back from them soon."	VERB
Another U.S. official said the Colombian army had difficulty finding any units
without serious human rights violations, thus slowing the process.	VERB
"The question is, is there anyone we can deal with out there?" the official
asked. "There are so many problems; it is very complicated."	VERB
Fidel Cano, a spokesman for the Colombian Embassy here, acknowledged the delays
in compiling the army's information but said putting together such data as who
belongs to what unit and which human rights investigations are underway is
complicated.	VERB
"Our Ministry of Defense is working very hard with the U.S. Embassy in Bogota to
get the information together," Cano said. "We are giving it a high priority; it
is not something that we have forgotten."	VERB

Threats to the resumption of the Northern Ireland peace talks receded today
after a British cabinet minister entered the huge Maze prison near Belfast and
pressed Protestant guerrillas held there to support continuing the discussions.	LEAD
Northern Ireland Secretary Marjorie Mowlam sat down with members of two outlawed
Protestant paramilitary groups and delivered a 14-point statement on why they
should reverse a vote they took last weekend to condemn the talks. That vote had
thrown the talks' future into question.	MAIN
After she left, the prisoners did what she asked. The political party that
speaks for them at the negotiating table, the Ulster Democratic Party, announced
it was no longer considering boycotting the talks, which are set to resume
Monday. Another party affiliated with imprisoned Protestant guerrillas, the
Progressive Unionist Party, said it would decide on Sunday whether to attend.	MAIN
The all-party talks, chaired by former U.S. senator George J. Mitchell
(D-Maine), seek a political solution in Northern Ireland between Protestants,
most of whom want to remain part of Britain, and Catholics, who want greater
political rights, including, for some, political union with the Republic of
Ireland to the south.	CIRC
"We are very unhappy about it," said Glyn Roberts, development officer for a
Northern Ireland peace group called Families Against Intimidation and Terror.
Mowlam spoke directly with terrorists, he said, "which many victims felt was
grossly insulting."	VERB
Throughout the conflict, the British government has held to the line that it
talks to people who renounce violence, not to killers.	PREV
To many people in
Britain, it seemed today that Mowlam was being summoned by men convicted of
crimes that include murder and arson.	EVAL
Mowlam denied being summoned to the prison or submitting to guerrilla threats.
"There was no metaphorical gun at my head," she said.	VERB
She also denied offering the prisoners any concessions. Rather, she said, she
delivered a message that their concerns -- particularly that their release be
part of any peace accord -- could be addressed only if talks continue.	VERB
Currently, 539 people convicted of offenses related to the sectarian conflict
live in the huge walled facility known as the Maze. Their influence in the talks
is among the starker paradoxes of the conflict.	CIRC
Addressing reporters after her visit, Mowlam apologized to people who took
offense. But she depicted the trip as part of her commitment to do whatever it
takes to keep the peace talks on track. "If we manage to get people round the
table on Monday," she said, "we have a chance to move this process forward."	VERB
Though the British government keeps them locked up, it must also keep in mind
their views, because they are viewed as heroes and prisoners of war by many
people on the outside. Their approval is considered key to any settlement.	CIRC
About half the prisoners are members of the outlawed Irish Republican Army and
its spinoffs, which want Northern Ireland to become part of Ireland. The others
are members of various illegal loyalist armed groups that want Northern Ireland
to remain a British province.	CIRC
The prisoners affiliated with the Ulster Defense Association and Ulster Freedom
Fighters became the focus of the crisis in recent days. Angry over the murder of
a hard-line loyalist leader in the Maze and the release of IRA prisoners in the
Irish republic, they voted to withdraw support for the talks.	CIRC
A statement issued by the two groups after Mowlam's visit said they had reversed
their previous vote, but added that this "does not represent a change in our
assessment of the talks." Many members of the Protestant community feel
frustrated over the talks, saying that Catholics are getting all the
concessions.	VERB
On Thursday, in an attempt to dispel reports that the prisoners are virtually in
charge at the Maze, prison authorities opened the doors to British journalists
and cameras. Inside they filmed barbed wire, tall walls and other security
measures -- and prisoner living areas that were done up as paramilitary
barracks.	CONS
Unit names, coats of arms, militant slogans and pictures of masked men with
automatic weapons had been painted on walls. Prisoners wore no uniforms and
relaxed in easy chairs with books and television.	CIRC
In television interviews, prisoners generally played down their influence on the
talks.	VERB
"We are in fact the symptom of the situation which exists in Northern Ireland,"
said Michael Stone, who was convicted of the murder of three people at an IRA
funeral in 1988. "At the end of the day we are only a component part of the
process."	VERB

AT&T Corp. made its biggest move yet into the local telephone market yesterday
by agreeing to acquire Teleport Communications Group Inc. for $ 11.3 billion.	LEAD
The purchase, which was approved by the boards of both companies, marks the
first major effort by new AT&T Chairman C. Michael Armstrong to revive AT&T,
which has been slow to react to mounting threats to its core long-distance
telephone business.	EVAL
"It's an indication that Mike Armstrong is serious about local competition and
serious about getting moving," said Anna-Marie Kovacs, an analyst for the
brokerage firm Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. "AT&T and Teleport are going after
the business market, which is where local companies make a lot of their money."	VERB
The deal also will give three major cable television companies, which are
majority owners of Teleport, a collective 10 percent stake in AT&T.	CONS
By acquiring Teleport, AT&T can offer business customers local and long-distance
telephone service, and data and Internet access, under its own brand name. Using
Teleport's local facilities, the company also would be able to reduce the fees
it pays to local phone companies for access to local telephone customers.	CONS
"It's going to permit us to be much more cost-effective as we go for that local
business," Armstrong said at a news briefing. "This has competition and growth
written all over it."	VERB
AT&T is paying for Teleport with its stock.	CIRC
Teleport
shareholders will receive 0.943 AT&T shares for each of their Teleport shares,
putting the deal at $ 59 a share based on AT&T's closing price yesterday of $
62.62 1/2 a share, up $ 2.62 1/2. Teleport closed down $ 3.62 1/2 at $ 54.12 1/2
a share.	CONS
The companies expect the deal, which must be approved by regulators and
shareholders, to close by fall.	VERB
Teleport, based in Staten Island, N.Y., leads a
new breed of local phone competitors that are invading urban markets to grab the
most lucrative business customers from the regional Bell companies, GTE Corp.
and other dominant local carriers. The company is not yet profitable, but is
expected to post revenue of $ 500 million in 1997.	CIRC
Teleport is the largest independent "competitive local exchange carrier," with
fiber-optic phone networks in 66 local markets nationwide, including Washington,
Baltimore, New York and Los Angeles. Its major shareholders include cable giants
Tele-Communications Inc., Comcast Corp. and Cox Enterprises Inc.	CIRC
The deal would collectively give those cable firms a 10 percent stake in AT&T,
which raises new possibilities for AT&T and the cable television industry. Cable
operators, for example, could begin providing AT&T-branded Internet access over
their cable lines. AT&T also may one day offer Internet-based telephone service
to customers through their cable service.	CONS
"I wouldn't be surprised if we saw further talks between AT&T and cable," said
Brian Adamik, an analyst for the Boston-based consulting firm Yankee Group.
"Let's face it, there are only two wires into the home. The whole issue of
cable-telephone could rise again."	VERB
Teleport Chairman Robert Annunziata, 49, a 17-year AT&T veteran who left in 1983
to form Teleport, will become an executive vice president of AT&T and head up
the company's local services unit.	CONS
AT&T has had trouble breaking into the $ 110 billion local telephone market
despite the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which required the Bells and other
local carriers to make their local phone lines and equipment available for
leasing and connection by competitors.	CIRC
Residential competition has remained elusive, largely because it's too expensive
for rivals to build their own facilities into every home. Instead, AT&T and
other rivals had hoped to lease phone lines from the Bells and other local
carriers, but are engaged in a battle with the Bells over the prices for such
access.	EVAL
Companies such as Teleport have been posing the only significant competition to
the regional Bells and other local telephone incumbents.	EVAL
WorldCom Inc. has the
largest presence in urban competitive phone routes through its 1996 purchase of
MFS Communications Co. for $ 14 billion in stock, and its 1997 acquisition of
Brooks Fiber Properties Inc. for $ 2.4 billion, announced on the day WorldCom
made its bid to acquire MCI Communications Corp.	HIST
Armstrong would not comment on possible future alliances with cable operators	VERB
One of his first moves upon taking the job in October, after leaving his post as
chairman of Hughes Electronics Co., was to sell AT&T's investment in Hughes's
DirecTV unit, the cable industry's chief direct-broadcast satellite rival.	PREV

Former housing secretary Henry Cisneros pleaded not guilty yesterday to felony
charges that he lied to the FBI about paying $ 250,000 in hush money to a former
mistress.	LEAD
He is charged with a multifaceted conspiracy in which he allegedly worked
frantically before, during and after his confirmation as housing secretary to
keep his ex-mistress from disclosing their long relationship and the extent of
payments he made to her to keep their relationship quiet. The grand jury said
that Cisneros also made payments to a second woman whom the ex-mistress, Linda
Medlar, knew about, and that Medlar was being paid to keep that quiet as well.	MAIN
Initially, it appeared that Cisneros and Medlar, who also is charged in the
case, would not appear together in the courtroom. At the start of the
arraignment, U.S. District Judge Stanley Sporkin announced that Medlar would not
make her appearance until later in the day.	MAIN
But just after Cisneros and two other defendants had settled into their seats at
the defense table, the courtroom door burst open. Attorney Roger Adelman, a
burly former federal prosecutor, stormed into the well of the court with Medlar
trailing behind him.	MAIN
Adelman launched rapid-fire into the arraignment routine, leaving Sporkin's
clerk somewhat speechless. He quickly waived formal reading of the 66-page
indictment and announced that his client was pleading not guilty to all charges.	MAIN
"You are always ahead of the game, Mr. Adelman," Sporkin said, chuckling.	VERB
When Medlar joined the other defendants yesterday at the defense table, Cisneros
looked directly at her, and they appeared to acknowledge each other. But she did
not hold his gaze and sat at the far end of the table, leaning away from the
others.	MAIN
Their trial was set for Nov. 4.	CIRC
Cisneros, 43, a former mayor of San Antonio, headed the Department of Housing
and Urban Development from 1993 through 1996 and once was considered a rising
star in national politics. He was indicted last month on charges of conspiracy,
obstruction of justice and making false statements.	HIST
Outside the courthouse, Cisneros spoke out for the first time since he was
indicted, addressing reporters in English and Spanish: "I regret the pain that
this matter has caused my wife, my children, my parents and my family. They are
wonderful, good, loving people.	CONS
"I care deeply about my community, and I love our country, which I've tried to
serve in a number of different capacities. I came to Washington to try to do
good, and I'm proud of the good we were able to do," said Cisneros, accompanied
by his attorney, Brendan V. Sullivan Jr. "I have deep faith and trust in
America's institutions and particularly believe in the inherent fairness of our
judicial system."	VERB
Cisneros now lives in Los Angeles, where he is president of Univision, a
Spanish-language television network.	CIRC
Medlar, 45, of Lubbock, Tex., is also charged with conspiracy and making a false
statement. She goes on trial Jan. 15 in Lubbock in a related case for conspiracy
to commit bank fraud in connection with a house purchased in the names of her
relatives with money she allegedly received from Cisneros.	CIRC
In the Lubbock case, her attorney, a public defender, has filed motions to
suppress statements she made to independent counsel David M. Barrett's
assistants. Her Lubbock lawyer alleges that Medlar was having serious emotional
problems, and that prosecutors knew it.	CIRC
Barrett's office initially entered into a cooperation agreement with her in
November 1995. But prosecutors became suspicious of her. In the Washington case,
she is charged with lying to the FBI when she said she had given original tapes
to the Internal Revenue Service of conversations with Cisneros she had secretly
recorded.	PREV
Because Medlar says she cannot afford to pay for an attorney, taxpayers will be
paying legal fees for Adelman, who is court-appointed.	CIRC
The two other defendants in the Washington case are former Cisneros aides Sylvia
Arce-Garcia, 43, of Los Angeles, and John D. Rosales, 41, of the Washington
area. Arce-Garcia is charged with conspiracy. Rosales is charged with conspiracy
and two counts of making false statements.	CIRC

President-elect Kim Dae Jung today blamed much of Asia's devastating financial
crisis on governments that "lie" to their people and "authoritarian" leaders who
place economic growth ahead of democratic freedoms.	LEAD
"Many of the leaders of Asian society have been saying that military
dictatorship was the way and democracy was not good for their nations," Kim said
in a wide-ranging 90-minute interview at his home in this suburb of Seoul.	MAIN
"They concentrated only on economic development," he said, without singling out
any nations but referring to "Asian-style democracy," in which governments are
built around a strong leader who controls economic policy. "I believe that the
fundamental cause of the financial crisis, including here in Korea, is because
of placing economic development ahead of democracy."	MAIN
Kim, a crusader for democracy and human rights who was imprisoned, exiled and
sentenced to death, and who survived assassination attempts at the hands of
South Korea's previous military dictators,	PREV
also said he hopes his life will
inspire his nation's youth.	MAIN
"If parents can tell their kids, 'Look at Kim Dae Jung: Live upright, put your
effort into a good cause and you will be successful,' then I think my life would
be very meaningful," said Kim	MAIN
 who won the presidency last month on his fourth
attempt in a quarter-century.	CIRC
Kim also reaffirmed his "100 percent commitment" to the $ 57 billion bailout of
his country's crippled economy by the International Monetary Fund. Although the
IMF is requiring tough reforms that are expected to lead to unprecedented
layoffs and corporate bankruptcies, Kim, who has close ties with the nation's
militant labor unions, said he believes he can negotiate a deal to avert massive
strikes, which would hamper the recovery of the world's 11th-largest economy.	MAIN
Kim described South Korea's relationship with the United States as "mutually
beneficial" on matters of economic trade and security. He supported the
continued presence of 37,000 U.S. troops to deter aggression from Stalinist
North Korea.	MAIN
who is seen as far more moderate toward the North than outgoing
President Kim Young Sam	EVAL
said he will move "aggressively" to provide emergency
food aid to the famine-stricken North. Kim Dae Jung said that his hopes to
engage the Pyongyang government more openly, perhaps even through a meeting with
reclusive leader Kim Jong Il, were well known to the North Koreans and "we are
just waiting for their response."	MAIN
Two days after his 74th birthday, Kim Dae Jung appeared rested, robust and
confident as he discussed the triumph and tragedy of his life and the severe
problems facing the nation he will lead after he is sworn in on Feb. 25.	CIRC
Kim spoke over a breakfast of hot cereal, eggs, ham, sausage and fruit in the
dining room of his two-story stone house, nestled into a community of
comfortable, single-family houses 20 miles north of Seoul. Kim's house is just
10 miles from the tense Demilitarized Zone separating the two Koreas; the
highway to his town is lined with a fence topped with coils of barbed wire to
keep North Korean agents from coming ashore from the Han River.	CIRC
Outside Kim's house, uniformed security guards stood on every corner for several
blocks in each direction. Security officers were also stationed inside the
house, where a small downstairs room has been turned into a communications
center, linked to a large, temporary command center that was built on the lot
next-door immediately after the election.	CIRC
Kim laughingly noted that the security agents resemble those stationed outside
his home in the 1980s, when he was under house arrest in Seoul. "These people
are now protecting me; before, they were trying to contain me," he said. "The
thought of doing this for five years in the [presidential] Blue House makes me a
little uneasy, even embarrassed."	MAIN
Kim spoke at length about the financial crisis facing South Korea, arguing that
the nation needs a thorough reform of government and of the corporate financial
structures that have led it to the brink of insolvency.	MAIN
"In order to rejuvenate the Korean economy, I believe we have to do two things,"
Kim said. "The first is to increase our export volume, and the other is to
induce foreign investment. We will be very aggressive on both.	MAIN
"Our new administration is going to take all these policies not because of the
requirement by the international community or the IMF, but we will take this
opportunity to reform our economic system so that we can be competitive in the
world economy."	MAIN
Kim said he believes the problem in South Korea has been a lack of the
transparency in government and finance that befits a fully functioning
democracy. The Asian crisis that swept from Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia to
South Korea, and which now threatens Japan, resulted from a failure to install a
vibrant democracy to keep governments and markets accountable, he said.	MAIN
"If we had true democracy in Korea, then the collusive intimacy between business
and government and corruption would not have been as great here. And the wealth
would not have been allocated to only a few people. Usually the dictatorship or
authoritarian style of government lies to people.	MAIN
"We've been told we are very wealthy, and we have been told to spend dollars
abroad because we had too many of them. We had approximately $ 40 billion of
deficit when President Kim Young Sam came in, and now we have $ 150 billion of
deficit. So, basically, we've been living well off the loans that we've been
given; the people have been deceived, and that's why we have this financial
crisis."	MAIN
Kim dispatched a team of advisers to New York and Washington this week to meet
with U.S. officials and international bankers who are considering ways to help
South Korea out of its financial mess.	CIRC
Kim said South Korea's immediate problem
is that it has $ 90 billion in short-term loans coming due in the next few
months.	MAIN
The bankers in New York, representing some of the world's largest
financial institutions, are trying to devise ways to roll over those loans or
find other solutions to give Seoul more breathing room on its short-term debt.	CIRC
One proposal is for the banks to extend the maturities on some of the debt in
exchange for the South Korean government's guaranteeing of some debt now held by
banks or other private institutions. While the notion of the government putting
itself on the hook for private debtors has been controversial, officials at the
Finance Ministry have said it may in fact do so.	VERB
"If that becomes the only choice, I will consider it," Kim said. "I think it is
necessary to make the rollover, and it is important to make the creditors feel
safe."	MAIN
International financier George Soros visited Kim this week and told reporters
later that a government guarantee of private debt would not solve South Korea's
problems. Soros also strongly advised the government not to borrow more money to
pay off loans that are coming due.	VERB
 But the government is reportedly planning to
do just that; media reports here say it plans to borrow as much as $ 35 billion
to pay off loans, turning debts due now into debts due later.	CIRC
The ultimate solution to South Korea's problems, Kim said, is increased
investment, especially by foreigners. He said Seoul is moving quickly toward
removing limits on foreign ownership of stocks and real estate, as well as
upgrading South Korea's murky accounting practices, which make it virtually
impossible to assess the health of a company -- or the government. "We want to
induce investment by making foreign investors feel they have no problems here,"
Kim said.	MAIN
During the election campaign, Kim alarmed foreign investors and analysts by
suggesting that Seoul should renegotiate the IMF deal. 	PREV
Today, he conceded that
he initially did not "understand the full depth" of the financial crisis, and he
blamed outgoing President Kim for misleading him and the South Korean people.
"The current government had been telling everybody that the economy was doing
well, and that we were the 11th-largest economic power, and the per capita [GDP]
was over $ 10,000 and we did not have any problem with the dollar [exchange
rate]. So I did not fully comprehend the situation; nor did any of the Korean
people."

	MAIN

ST. THOMAS, Virgin Islands, Jan. 4 -
 


President Clinton will meet with Israeli and Palestinian leaders separately in 
Washington later this month in an attempt to revitalize the Middle East peace 
process that all but died last year, the White House announced today.	LEAD
Clinton will host Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu at the White House 
on Jan. 20 and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat two days later. There are no 
plans to bring the two adversaries together, aides said. Clinton has warned both 
publicly that the peace process is in danger of collapsing if they do not resume 
full negotiations soon.	MAIN
"The president thought this was the right time to bring both leaders to 
Washington to try to move the peace process forward," said deputy press 
secretary Joe Lockhart, who announced the visits here during the final day of 
Clinton's winter vacation.	VERB
The administration has been trying to push the two sides back on track after 
months of renewed hostility born out of Israeli housing projects in disputed 
neighborhoods, stalled West Bank troop redeployments and Arab terrorist attacks 
in Jewish areas. With Middle East peace once thought to be a central achievement 
of his foreign policy, Clinton feels increasingly anxious that the progress he 
helped bring about may evaporate and leave the volatile region as unsettled as 
ever.	CIRC
He was so irritated with what he saw as intransigence by Netanyahu in particular 
that he declined to meet with the Israeli leader when he was in Washington in 
November, a move the prime minister later branded an "insult."	PREV
Administration officials in Washington said they hope this month's back-to-back 
meetings will produce a framework for beginning the next stage of negotiations 
on "final status" issues such as the fate of Jerusalem and a Palestinian 
homeland.	VERB
"It would be good, but we will see whether there's enough concrete progress to 
do that," one senior official who insisted on anonymity said in a telephone 
interview. "That's clearly the objective."	VERB
Another official, who also declined to be named, said Clinton wants to see 
tangible movement on the part of both leaders when they arrive in Washington.	VERB
"We're hoping the prime minister will come with a clear position on further 
withdrawal [of troops from disputed territory] and the timeout [on housing 
construction] -- the two elements we have been talking about with the Israelis 
since the summer," the official said. From Arafat, he added, Clinton will be 
"looking to see if there is continuing concrete performance in security 
cooperation. We're seeing progress in the right direction over the last six 
months, but that is something that has to be unremitting, and there can be no 
letdown there."	VERB
The administration has the impression that both leaders have been nearing the 
point where they can resume negotiations but have cautiously held back. A 
presidential shove, Clinton aides calculate, may be what is needed to break the 
standoff.	VERB
The administration this week is dispatching special Middle East envoy Dennis 
Ross to the region, where he will meet with both Netanyahu and Arafat and then 
report back to Clinton.	EXPE
President Clinton will meet with Israeli and Palestinian leaders separately in
Washington later this month in an attempt to revitalize the Middle East peace
process that all but died last year, the White House announced today.	LEAD
Clinton will host Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu at the White House
on Jan. 20 and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat two days later. There are no
plans to bring the two adversaries together, aides said. Clinton has warned both
publicly that the peace process is in danger of collapsing if they do not resume
full negotiations soon.	MAIN
"The president thought this was the right time to bring both leaders to
Washington to try to move the peace process forward," said deputy press
secretary Joe Lockhart, who announced the visits here during the final day of
Clinton's winter vacation.	VERB
The administration has been trying to push the two sides back on track after
months of renewed hostility born out of Israeli housing projects in disputed
neighborhoods, stalled West Bank troop redeployments and Arab terrorist attacks
in Jewish areas. With Middle East peace once thought to be a central achievement
of his foreign policy, Clinton feels increasingly anxious that the progress he
helped bring about may evaporate and leave the volatile region as unsettled as
ever.	CIRC
He was so irritated with what he saw as intransigence by Netanyahu in particular
that he declined to meet with the Israeli leader when he was in Washington in
November, a move the prime minister later branded an "insult."	PREV
Administration officials in Washington said they hope this month's back-to-back
meetings will produce a framework for beginning the next stage of negotiations
on "final status" issues such as the fate of Jerusalem and a Palestinian
homeland.	VERB
"It would be good, but we will see whether there's enough concrete progress to
do that," one senior official who insisted on anonymity said in a telephone
interview. "That's clearly the objective."	VERB
Another official, who also declined to be named, said Clinton wants to see
tangible movement on the part of both leaders when they arrive in Washington.
"We're hoping the prime minister will come with a clear position on further
withdrawal [of troops from disputed territory] and the timeout [on housing
construction] -- the two elements we have been talking about with the Israelis
since the summer," the official said. From Arafat, he added, Clinton will be
"looking to see if there is continuing concrete performance in security
cooperation. We're seeing progress in the right direction over the last six
months, but that is something that has to be unremitting, and there can be no
letdown there."	VERB
The administration has the impression that both leaders have been nearing the
point where they can resume negotiations but have cautiously held back. A
presidential shove, Clinton aides calculate, may be what is needed to break the
standoff.
	VERB
The administration this week is dispatching special Middle East envoy Dennis
Ross to the region, where he will meet with both Netanyahu and Arafat and then
report back to Clinton.	CONS

American Mobile Satellite Corp. announced yesterday that it will purchase
Motorola Inc.'s electronic-messaging business, known as Ardis, for $ 100 million
in stock and cash, a move that would make the Reston company one of the
country's largest suppliers of mobile data-service devices to professionals who
are frequently out of their offices but need to stay in touch with dispatchers
and managers.	LEAD
Ardis, which covers more than 425 cities in North America, uses radio towers to
provide data messages to mobile business users -- for example, copy machine or
elevator repair people. AMSC, meanwhile, uses satellites to provide both voice
and data message services to people who work in outlying areas, including truck
drivers and boat captains.	CIRC
The acquisition is contingent on government regulatory approvals and is expected
to close in the first quarter of this year. If the deal is approved, AMSC said
its emphasis would shift to data, rather than voice, services. AMSC anticipates
that more than 80 percent of its revenue would come from data services, and
close to 90 percent of its customer base would use such services. The split is
now about 50-50, Parsons said.	CONS
"This seems like a good strategic fit for AMSC in that it will give them
ubiquitous service," said Robert Kaimowitz, a satellite industry analyst for
C.E. Unterberg, Towbin in New York. But Kaimowitz declined to comment on whether
he believes AMSC is paying a good price for Ardis, which he projects will have
revenue of about $ 38 million in 1997. The deal's impact on AMSC's earnings is
unclear, he said.	VERB
AMSC has lost money consistently in recent quarters, reporting
losses of $ 80.2 million in the first three quarters of 1997, on revenue of $
30.3 million.	PREV
AMSC stock closed yesterday at $ 7 a share, up 6 1/4 cents, on the Nasdaq Stock
Market. Motorola's stock also was up 6 1/4 cents a share to close at $ 57.18 3/4
on the New York Stock Exchange.	CONS
Yesterday's announcement solidifies what had already been a close working
relationship between the two companies, Parsons said. He said the companies had
relied on each other's technology when users moved out of their normal coverage
area.	VERB
From a consumer standpoint, nothing would change in the new arrangement, Parsons
said. No new equipment would be needed. While he said the acquisition would
allow AMSC to reduce costs, he expects no decrease in the prices of products. He
said it is premature to say what management or branding changes would be made.
Ardis's land-based division would continue working at the company's
Lincolnshire, Ill., headquarters, he said, with its satellite services based in
Reston; there are no plans for any layoffs.	VERB
Albert Lopez, director of communications for Motorola's messaging information
and media sector, said the acquisition would enable the company to focus on
developing consumer products, including cellular phones and pagers.
	VERB
"These are the things Motorola is known for," he said.	VERB
The acquisition combines two companies with complementary technologies that now
serve disparate business sectors.	EVAL
Under terms of the deal, Motorola would become
AMSC's second-largest stockholder, with close to 20 percent of the company, said
Gary Parsons, president and chief executive of AMSC.	VERB

Compaq Computer Corp., the world's largest maker of personal computers, said 
yesterday that it will buy Digital Equipment Corp. for $ 9.6 billion in the 
computer industry's largest-ever merger. The deal would create the 
second-largest computer company in the world, one that even giant International 
Business Machines Corp. will have to watch with care.	LEAD
"It's been our stated goal to become one of the top three computer companies in 
the world," Compaq chief executive Eckhard Pfeiffer said at a news conference in 
New York.	VERB
The combined company will become the industry's newest giant, with combined 
annual revenue of $ 37 billion based on last year's sales. It will be second 
only to IBM, which had $ 78.5 billion in revenue last year. Hewlett-Packard Co. 
ranks third, with 1997 revenue of $ 35.5 billion from computer products and 
services.	MAIN
At the heart of the Digital deal, analysts say, is Compaq's keen interest in 
moving beyond its preeminence in personal computers to build a strong presence 
in the lucrative corporate marketplace. To do that, Compaq needs a corps of 
experts who can advise companies on how to use the latest technology, including 
the sophisticated "server" computers that Compaq also makes.	VERB
"The services [division] is the jewel they're trying to pull out of Digital," 
said Frank Gens, a senior vice president at International Data Corp., a market 
research group in Framingham, Mass.	VERB
Compaq already is the third leg in one of the technology world's most powerful 
alliances, a partnership that began with Microsoft Corp., maker of the dominant 
personal computer operating system, and Intel Corp., whose chips run most of the 
world's PCs.	CIRC
Microsoft, Intel and Compaq have fueled the explosive growth of the personal 
computer industry, putting PCs in the hands of millions of consumers and 
businesses. Compaq captured nearly 30 percent of the growth in PC sales last and 
shipped nearly 10 million personal computers, according to Dataquest Inc., an 
industry research firm.	PREV
But Compaq, Intel and Microsoft have set their sights on the more profitable -- 
and more demanding -- market of serving large companies, and they are tailoring 
their future software, chips and computers for that market. Microsoft is pushing 
its Windows NT operating system software, and Intel is developing its "IA-64" 
family of chips, starting with one it calls "Merced."	EVAL
Compaq has used Microsoft software and, for the most part, Intel chips to 
achieve its top ranking in PC sales. But two years ago, company managers 
reorganized the firm to focus on corporate customers, said John Rose, a senior 
vice president at Compaq. Last year, Compaq spent $ 3 billion to buy Tandem 
Computers, a longtime maker of sophisticated "fault-tolerant" systems -- 
computers designed to be relatively crash-proof in critical applications.	HIST
By 2000, Rose said, Compaq managers want the company to pull in $ 50 billion in 
revenue, half of it by selling high-end computers such as servers and services 
to corporations, compared with about 37 percent of its revenue from such 
customers before the Digital deal was announced.	VERB
Analysts said the deal was not surprising. Compaq has long considered buying at 
least a portion of Digital, which, in turn, has struggled over the past few 
years to improve its bottom line.	VERB
In acquiring Digital, Compaq is taking on a complex organization and a markedly 
different corporate culture, industry experts point out. The deal, unanimously 
approved yesterday by both companies' boards, also must pass muster with U.S. 
antitrust regulators and the shareholders of both firms.	VERB
Yet if the merger is a success, the company that emerges will be an even 
stronger partner in the Microsoft-Intel alliance. Both Compaq and Digital were 
committed to supporting Windows NT before this deal, pointed out Nathan 
Myhrvold, Microsoft's chief scientist.	EXPE
"DEC has organization and enterprise skills and Compaq has a heritage in the 
mass production world," he said. "NT is a product that straddles those two 
areas," he added, and the new firm will be well suited to propel it forward.	VERB
But corporate customers want more from their suppliers than the latest hardware 
and software; they want a corps of trained specialists who can make all the 
pieces work, and even after acquiring Tandem, Compaq was "nowhere near the 
player that DEC is" in that area, said Gens of IDC.	VERB
With the purchase of Digital, Compaq gains a company that not only is known for 
its server computers, but one that over the years has created a services 
division for large customers that ranks among the top 10 in the world, Gens 
said. Digital has a group of about 25,000 engineers and support staff around the 
world, compared with 8,000 for Compaq.	VERB
Digital's services division "has been a real moneymaker," said Tony Scott of 
A.T. Carney, an executive search organization, in Redwood Shores, Calif. Last 
quarter, for instance, services amounted to $ 1.5 billion of Digital's $ 3.3 
billion in revenue. (For all of 1997, Digital had $ 13 billion in revenue, and $ 
140.8 million in profit.)	PREV
But Compaq inherits more than a strong services group. Digital's researchers are 
known for creating such jewels as AltaVista, a powerful "engine" for searching 
the World Wide Web; the Alpha microprocessor, which routinely outstrips Intel's 
family of Pentium processors; and a promising chip called StrongARM, designed to 
be the brains of handheld electronic devices and possibly even the TV set-top 
boxes that promise to meld TVs and computers.	EVAL
Although the technologies are promising, analysts said, many of those efforts 
have seemed to muddy Digital's core business and sap its profitability. 
Recently, Digital agreed to sell its chip businesses to Intel, although the deal 
is still awaiting government approval. Executives said Compaq, after it buys 
Digital, will continue to support Alpha.	VERB
Under terms of the deal, which the companies hope to complete in the second 
quarter, Digital shareholders will receive $ 30 in cash and about 0.945 share of 
Compaq stock for each share of Digital stock they own. Compaq plans to pay $ 4.8 
billion in cash and issue 150 million shares of stock to finance the purchase. 
Based on Compaq's closing price of $ 31.75 Friday, the deal values Digital at 
just more than $ 60 per share, a nearly one-third premium to the company's $ 
45.43 3/4 close Friday.	CONS
Yesterday, Digital stock jumped $ 10, to $ 55.43 3/4, while Compaq fell $ 2.75, 
to $ 29, both in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.	CONS
Compaq Computer Corp., the world's largest maker of personal computers, said
yesterday that it will buy Digital Equipment Corp. for $ 9.6 billion in the
computer industry's largest-ever merger. The deal would create the
second-largest computer company in the world, one that even giant International
Business Machines Corp. will have to watch with care.	LEAD
"It's been our stated goal to become one of the top three computer companies in
the world," Compaq chief executive Eckhard Pfeiffer said at a news conference in
New York.	VERB
The combined company will become the industry's newest giant, with combined
annual revenue of $ 37 billion based on last year's sales. It will be second
only to IBM, which had $ 78.5 billion in revenue last year. Hewlett-Packard Co.
ranks third, with 1997 revenue of $ 35.5 billion from computer products and
services.	CONS
At the heart of the Digital deal, analysts say, is Compaq's keen interest in
moving beyond its preeminence in personal computers to build a strong presence
in the lucrative corporate marketplace. To do that, Compaq needs a corps of
experts who can advise companies on how to use the latest technology, including
the sophisticated "server" computers that Compaq also makes.	CIRC
"The services [division] is the jewel they're trying to pull out of Digital,"
said Frank Gens, a senior vice president at International Data Corp., a market
research group in Framingham, Mass.	VERB
Compaq already is the third leg in one of the technology world's most powerful
alliances, a partnership that began with Microsoft Corp., maker of the dominant
personal computer operating system, and Intel Corp., whose chips run most of the
world's PCs.	CIRC
Microsoft, Intel and Compaq have fueled the explosive growth of the personal
computer industry, putting PCs in the hands of millions of consumers and
businesses. Compaq captured nearly 30 percent of the growth in PC sales last and
shipped nearly 10 million personal computers, according to Dataquest Inc., an
industry research firm.	PREV
But Compaq, Intel and Microsoft have set their sights on the more profitable --
and more demanding -- market of serving large companies, and they are tailoring
their future software, chips and computers for that market. Microsoft is pushing
its Windows NT operating system software, and Intel is developing its "IA-64"
family of chips, starting with one it calls "Merced."	EVAL
Compaq has used Microsoft software and, for the most part, Intel chips to
achieve its top ranking in PC sales. But two years ago, company managers
reorganized the firm to focus on corporate customers, said John Rose, a senior
vice president at Compaq. Last year, Compaq spent $ 3 billion to buy Tandem
Computers, a longtime maker of sophisticated "fault-tolerant" systems --
computers designed to be relatively crash-proof in critical applications.	HIST
By 2000, Rose said, Compaq managers want the company to pull in $ 50 billion in
revenue, half of it by selling high-end computers such as servers and services
to corporations, compared with about 37 percent of its revenue from such
customers before the Digital deal was announced.	VERB
Analysts said the deal was not surprising. Compaq has long considered buying at
least a portion of Digital, which, in turn, has struggled over the past few
years to improve its bottom line.	VERB
In acquiring Digital, Compaq is taking on a complex organization and a markedly
different corporate culture, industry experts point out. The deal, unanimously
approved yesterday by both companies' boards, also must pass muster with U.S.
antitrust regulators and the shareholders of both firms.	CONS
Yet if the merger is a success, the company that emerges will be an even
stronger partner in the Microsoft-Intel alliance. Both Compaq and Digital were
committed to supporting Windows NT before this deal, pointed out Nathan
Myhrvold, Microsoft's chief scientist.	EXPE
"DEC has organization and enterprise skills and Compaq has a heritage in the
mass production world," he said. "NT is a product that straddles those two
areas," he added, and the new firm will be well suited to propel it forward.	VERB
But corporate customers want more from their suppliers than the latest hardware
and software; they want a corps of trained specialists who can make all the
pieces work, and even after acquiring Tandem, Compaq was "nowhere near the
player that DEC is" in that area, said Gens of IDC.	VERB
With the purchase of Digital, Compaq gains a company that not only is known for
its server computers, but one that over the years has created a services
division for large customers that ranks among the top 10 in the world, Gens
said. Digital has a group of about 25,000 engineers and support staff around the
world, compared with 8,000 for Compaq.	VERB
Digital's services division "has been a real moneymaker," said Tony Scott of
A.T. Carney, an executive search organization, in Redwood Shores, Calif. Last
quarter, for instance, services amounted to $ 1.5 billion of Digital's $ 3.3
billion in revenue. (For all of 1997, Digital had $ 13 billion in revenue, and $
140.8 million in profit.)	VERB
But Compaq inherits more than a strong services group. Digital's researchers are
known for creating such jewels as AltaVista, a powerful "engine" for searching
the World Wide Web; the Alpha microprocessor, which routinely outstrips Intel's
family of Pentium processors; and a promising chip called StrongARM, designed to
be the brains of handheld electronic devices and possibly even the TV set-top
boxes that promise to meld TVs and computers.	EVAL
Although the technologies are promising, analysts said, many of those efforts
have seemed to muddy Digital's core business and sap its profitability.
Recently, Digital agreed to sell its chip businesses to Intel, although the deal
is still awaiting government approval. Executives said Compaq, after it buys
Digital, will continue to support Alpha.
	VERB
Under terms of the deal, which the companies hope to complete in the second
quarter, Digital shareholders will receive $ 30 in cash and about 0.945 share of
Compaq stock for each share of Digital stock they own. Compaq plans to pay $ 4.8
billion in cash and issue 150 million shares of stock to finance the purchase.
Based on Compaq's closing price of $ 31.75 Friday, the deal values Digital at
just more than $ 60 per share, a nearly one-third premium to the company's $
45.43 3/4 close Friday.	CONS
Yesterday, Digital stock jumped $ 10, to $ 55.43 3/4, while Compaq fell $ 2.75,
to $ 29, both in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.	CONS

BRUSSELS-
 


Even before it is played out, the Iraq crisis is having a profound effect on a 
debate within NATO over how the Atlantic security partnership should define its 
strategic interests for the next century.	LEAD
While European allies have closed ranks behind the United States in the latest 
showdown with Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, there are lingering apprehensions 
among NATO governments about the Clinton administration's insistence on 
recognizing the spread of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons as the 
alliance's most urgent priority.	CIRC
At a meeting of NATO foreign ministers here two months ago, Secretary of State 
Madeleine K. Albright pointed to the looming fight with Iraq and declared that 
banishing the weapons of mass destruction of rogue states should become the new 
"unifying threat" that binds Europe and the United States in the post-Cold War 
era.	PREV
Albright cited weapons proliferation as "the overriding security interest of our 
time." She also has urged that an expanding North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
-- which will embrace Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic as full members 
next year -- must extend its geographic reach beyond the European continent and 
evolve into "a force for peace from the Middle East to Central Africa."	VERB
Senior French officials say their government is wary of expanding NATO's 
geographic reach because it fears the alliance would become little more than a 
multinational military machine to assert global U.S. interests. While France's 
skepticism about U.S. intentions is well-known, other European allies voice 
similar concerns.	VERB
"If NATO is changing a military destiny once based on geography to a defense of 
common values, then where do we draw the limits?" asked a senior European 
diplomat. "Will we all agree on which values to fight for? And just how far do 
we then go to defend them?"	VERB
U.S. Ambassador to NATO Alexander Vershbow said Albright's suggestions were 
primarily intended to stimulate discussion of a "strategic concept" being 
prepared for a summit in Washington next April to celebrate NATO's 50th 
anniversary.	VERB
While the debate is still in its early stages, Vershbow said in an interview 
that the United States wants the new strategic statement "to lay out a bold 
vision for the next century and to provide practical guidance to our military 
structures on how resources can be shifted to meet these new kinds of threats."	VERB
He said the United States considers it necessary for European governments to 
expand their power-projection capabilities to relieve some of the burdens on 
American forces in defending alliance security interests outside Europe. Failure 
to do so, he said, could lead to erosion of U.S. support "if the allies are seen 
to be getting a free ride."	VERB
Albright addressed this perceptual problem at the December meeting, telling her 
European colleagues that "too often, the United States takes the heat for 
dealing with difficult issues while others take the contracts -- and that our 
willingness to take responsibility for peace and security makes it easier for 
others to shirk theirs."	VERB
A recent study by the Western European Union, a defense-oriented affiliate of 
the European Union, found that its 10 member nations were so feeble in 
projecting military power that they could not sustain long-term deployment of 
more than one division or three brigades. In an era of high joblessness and 
meager defense budgets, European governments appear reluctant to devote greater 
resources to coping with distant or murky threats.	EVAL
Some European officials said they were outraged recently when visiting U.S. 
senators demanded Europe's unflinching support for American global initiatives, 
including a military attack against Iraq, as fair compensation for U.S. security 
commitments on the continent.	VERB
"Make no mistake: There is a direct relationship between decisions taken on Iraq 
in the next weeks and months and the future of U.S. support for NATO," warned 
Sen. John Warner (R.-Va.) at a Munich defense seminar earlier this month.	VERB
Warner's statement was described as "blackmail" by several European diplomats 
here. "Whatever happens in Iraq, blind support for every policy dictated by 
Washington cannot be the basis of this alliance," said a European ambassador.	VERB
American appeals to stretch alliance interests beyond NATO's territorial domain 
reflect a longstanding argument between the United States and Europe over "out 
of area" activities. But the relative success of the NATO-led peacekeeping 
mission in Bosnia has emboldened the United States to promote NATO initiatives 
for the Balkans, the Middle East and Africa that would have been unthinkable in 
Cold War days.	EVAL
Even before it is played out, the Iraq crisis is having a profound effect on a
debate within NATO over how the Atlantic security partnership should define its
strategic interests for the next century.	LEAD
While European allies have closed ranks behind the United States in the latest
showdown with Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, there are lingering apprehensions
among NATO governments about the Clinton administration's insistence on
recognizing the spread of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons as the
alliance's most urgent priority.	CIRC
At a meeting of NATO foreign ministers here two months ago, Secretary of State
Madeleine K. Albright pointed to the looming fight with Iraq and declared that
banishing the weapons of mass destruction of rogue states should become the new
"unifying threat" that binds Europe and the United States in the post-Cold War
era.	PREV
Albright cited weapons proliferation as "the overriding security interest of our
time." She also has urged that an expanding North Atlantic Treaty Organization
-- which will embrace Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic as full members
next year -- must extend its geographic reach beyond the European continent and
evolve into "a force for peace from the Middle East to Central Africa."	VERB
Senior French officials say their government is wary of expanding NATO's
geographic reach because it fears the alliance would become little more than a
multinational military machine to assert global U.S. interests. While France's
skepticism about U.S. intentions is well-known, other European allies voice
similar concerns.	VERB
"If NATO is changing a military destiny once based on geography to a defense of
common values, then where do we draw the limits?" asked a senior European
diplomat. "Will we all agree on which values to fight for? And just how far do
we then go to defend them?"	VERB
U.S. Ambassador to NATO Alexander Vershbow said Albright's suggestions were
primarily intended to stimulate discussion of a "strategic concept" being
prepared for a summit in Washington next April to celebrate NATO's 50th
anniversary.	VERB
While the debate is still in its early stages, Vershbow said in an interview
that the United States wants the new strategic statement "to lay out a bold
vision for the next century and to provide practical guidance to our military
structures on how resources can be shifted to meet these new kinds of threats."	VERB
He said the United States considers it necessary for European governments to
expand their power-projection capabilities to relieve some of the burdens on
American forces in defending alliance security interests outside Europe. Failure
to do so, he said, could lead to erosion of U.S. support "if the allies are seen
to be getting a free ride."	VERB
Albright addressed this perceptual problem at the December meeting, telling her
European colleagues that "too often, the United States takes the heat for
dealing with difficult issues while others take the contracts -- and that our
willingness to take responsibility for peace and security makes it easier for
others to shirk theirs."	VERB
A recent study by the Western European Union, a defense-oriented affiliate of
the European Union, found that its 10 member nations were so feeble in
projecting military power that they could not sustain long-term deployment of
more than one division or three brigades. In an era of high joblessness and
meager defense budgets, European governments appear reluctant to devote greater
resources to coping with distant or murky threats.	EVAL
Some European officials said they were outraged recently when visiting U.S.
senators demanded Europe's unflinching support for American global initiatives,
including a military attack against Iraq, as fair compensation for U.S. security
commitments on the continent.	VERB
"Make no mistake: There is a direct relationship between decisions taken on Iraq
in the next weeks and months and the future of U.S. support for NATO," warned
Sen. John Warner (R.-Va.) at a Munich defense seminar earlier this month.	VERB
Warner's statement was described as "blackmail" by several European diplomats
here. "Whatever happens in Iraq, blind support for every policy dictated by
Washington cannot be the basis of this alliance," said a European ambassador.	VERB
American appeals to stretch alliance interests beyond NATO's territorial domain
reflect a longstanding argument between the United States and Europe over "out
of area" activities. But the relative success of the NATO-led peacekeeping
mission in Bosnia has emboldened the United States to promote NATO initiatives
for the Balkans, the Middle East and Africa that would have been unthinkable in
Cold War days.	EVAL

Britain and Ireland today suspended Sinn Fein, the Irish Republican Army's
political ally, from the Northern Ireland peace talks, prompting concern that
violence could erupt again in the British province.	LEAD
British and Irish officials went to Belfast to inform Sinn Fein leaders that two
recent slayings police blamed on the IRA disqualify the party from a place at
the negotiating table. But the officials made clear they were acting reluctantly
and wanted Sinn Fein back.	MAIN
They specified that the suspension will last until March 9 but warned that Sinn
Fein could be expelled permanently if the IRA kills again. They also agreed to
hold back-door communications with Sinn Fein so that it can be heard in the
negotiations during the suspension.	CONS
[Late Friday, a car bomb exploded near a police station in Moira, 20 miles south
of Belfast, causing widespread damage and minor injuries to about a dozen
people, police and hospital personnel said, according to news services. There
was no initial claim of responsibility.]	CIRC
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams called the suspension "disgraceful."	VERB
"The process by which this decision was reached lacks any notion of natural
justice or fairness," Adams said. But he urged supporters to show restraint. "I
want to appeal to everyone to stay calm, to channel their anger and their
frustration, if they wish to, into calm and disciplined protest," he said.	VERB
Many people in Northern Ireland fear that any violent street demonstrations or
new attacks by the IRA in response to the suspension will effectively end the
talks, which aim to end three decades of violence between the province's
Protestant majority and Catholic minority.	VERB
Reacting to the decision, several hundred people chanted "No justice, no peace!"
outside police stations in Catholic west Belfast and in Londonderry, Northern
Ireland's second-largest city, the Associated Press reported. In north Belfast,
protesters scuffled with police and soldiers guarding Protestant homes. Bigger
weekend protests are scheduled in both cities.	VERB
British and Irish officials said they had no choice but to suspend Sinn Fein
once police in Northern Ireland linked the IRA to two killings there last week.
Under the rules of the discussions, political parties may take part only if
their paramilitary allies respect a cease-fire.	VERB
"The principles [of nonviolence] have been demonstrably dishonored," British
Secretary of State for Northern Ireland Marjorie Mowlam said today in Belfast.
"Therefore Sinn Fein is no longer entitled to take part in these talks. . . . We
cannot have the integrity of the process violated."	VERB
Sinn Fein filed suit Wednesday in Dublin to try to block the suspension,
contending it is separate from the IRA and should not be held accountable for
IRA actions. Sinn Fein withdrew its court action following today's expulsion.	CIRC
Britain and Ireland ejected Sinn Fein reluctantly, since any hope for lasting
peace hinges on the support of the IRA, the province's most powerful Catholic
paramilitary group.	CIRC
"I look forward to their return on March 9," said Irish Foreign Minister David
Andrews, who with Mowlam met with Adams and other Sinn Fein leaders in Belfast
today.	VERB
Meanwhile, reports of another apparently sectarian slaying in Northern Ireland
underlined how often the cease-fire is violated and how difficult it is to
determine who is responsible. On Wednesday, a Catholic man was found shot dead
in a deserted farmhouse, his arms tied behind his back. A Protestant
paramilitary group that operates in the area, the Loyalist Volunteer Force,
denied responsibility.	CIRC
Sinn Fein's suspension was intended in part to satisfy Protestant leaders. But
representatives of Protestant parties contended today that Sinn Fein received
special treatment even as it was thrown out. They noted that a small Protestant
group, the Ulster Democratic Party, was given no return date when it was ejected
last month after its paramilitary ally admitted killing three Catholics. Britain
and Ireland announced today the Ulster Democratic Party will be allowed to
return to the talks on Monday.	VERB

JAKARTA, Indonesia, Feb. 27-
 


James Riady, the Indonesian businessman who befriended President Clinton in 
Arkansas and became a major contributor to the Democratic Party, today denied 
allegations in a recent draft report by a Senate committee's Republican majority 
that he and his company, the Lippo Group, had ties to a Chinese government 
intelligence agency.	LEAD
In a written statement provided at the end of an interview, Riady also sought to 
clarify his relationship with former Democratic Party fund-raiser John Huang. 
The Senate Governmental Affairs Committee spent almost a year investigating many 
aspects of alleged campaign finance abuses in the 1996 presidential and 
congressional elections, including a "plan" by China to influence U.S. 
elections.	VERB
"I did not receive any information from John that I was told was classified, or 
that I believed to be classified," Riady said in the statement. "I did not ask 
John to give me any American classified intelligence, and to the best of my 
knowledge he did not provide me with any such information."	VERB
Riady, who is deputy chairman of the Lippo Group, one of Indonesia's largest and 
most respected conglomerates, also said Huang "did not ask me to channel any 
money to America for the purpose of gaining influence for any foreign country in 
an American election, and I did not do so."	VERB
Huang once ran Lippo's U.S. operations. He served in the Commerce Department 
beginning in July 1994. After a Sept. 13, 1995, meeting between Riady and 
Clinton in the Oval Office, Huang moved over to the Democratic National 
Committee in December that year, where he raised money from Asian American 
donors. The Senate committee said it had "a single piece of unverified 
information" that Huang may have a direct financial relationship with the 
Chinese government. The draft report describes the alleged relationship between 
the Riady family and Chinese intelligence as "based on business interests," with 
the Riadys obtaining Chinese assistance for international business opportunities 
"in exchange for large sums of money and other help."	HIST
Riady spoke in his 21-story office building on the outskirts of Jakarta. The 
ground rules of the interview prohibited questions on American politics or the 
family's alleged links to Chinese intelligence, such as why the family 
contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars to Clinton and the Democrats, and 
why Huang was in such frequent contact with his former employers at Lippo when 
he was at the Commerce Department.	CIRC
The timing of his statement is important. Riady, an ethnic Chinese, is trying to 
project a stable image for himself and his company at a time of economic and 
social upheaval in Indonesia.	EVAL
Riady also would like to improve his image in the United States, a country he 
says he loved and admired. But in the limelight he attracted in his 15 to 20 
visits to the White House, including three to the Oval Office where he discussed 
policy matters with Clinton, he got a taste of American culture that he didn't 
bargain for, he says.	VERB
"American values, I think I must say, have deteriorated," he said. "I think what 
you see in the television forms the image of what the truth is. Actually what it 
has become is, the perception is more important than the truth."	VERB
So far the Senate panel's allegations appear to have left the reputation of 
Riady and his father, Mochtar, as good businessmen intact in Indonesia. Indeed, 
in a country like Indonesia, giving money to influential friends -- in this case 
President Clinton -- simply makes good business sense.	EVAL
From his office, where several framed pictures of himself with Clinton decorate 
a bookshelf and desk, Riady portrayed the Lippo Group as one of Indonesia's most 
durable companies, with an American-inspired dream of developing glittering 
shopping malls and residential communities.	EVAL
"We like to focus more on the vision that we have, and our eyes are still 
focused on that vision," he said. "We're not quite like America yet, but 
obviously that becomes our target of what we'd like to do."	VERB
It includes expanding business in China and elsewhere. Lippo sources said 
business in China currently represents 5 percent of the company's total assets, 
but company executives predict that in two or three decades that figure could 
grow to 30 percent.	VERB
"We have always felt that China presents extremely good long-term prospects," 
Riady said. "But that's what it is -- prospects."	VERB
"In the short term there are lots of risks, volatility, as the government tries 
to shift and structure its economy from a basically state economy to more and 
more open economy and private enterprise," he said. "During that shift there's a 
lot of uncertainties and a lot of volatility. So what we try to do is try to 
look in the long term, but in the short term try to limit our investments to a 
manageable level."	VERB
Despite his dreams, Riady still has to deal with the short term, namely, 
wrestling with Indonesia's economic crisis.	EVAL
A $ 43 billion bailout by the International Monetary Fund is supposed to help 
get the sprawling archipelago back on its feet, but the government has been slow 
to implement reforms. An acute money problem -- the local currency, the rupiah, 
has lost more than two-thirds of its value in the past eight months -- has many 
companies on the verge of bankruptcy because they can't pay their debts.	PREV
In this regard, Lippo has done fairly well. Riady said that in the last two 
years the company has incurred no debt at all.	VERB
But there are cracks in the Lippo veneer. Riady acknowledged that Lippo-owned 
banks had lost 10 percent of their deposits, and that the company's retail 
business is down 20 percent to 30 percent.	VERB
Despite the overall economic problems plaguing Indonesia, and the resulting 
crisis of confidence, Riady still promotes the nation as "the best place for 
investments." And he says it is not true that personal connections determine 
success or failure here.	VERB
"I think in any country connections are important because at the end of the day 
you want to know the policy directions of the government," he said. "So 
relationships and connections are important and are helpful, but I think it is 
unwise to base your business on those connections."	VERB
James Riady, the Indonesian businessman who befriended President Clinton in
Arkansas and became a major contributor to the Democratic Party, today denied
allegations in a recent draft report by a Senate committee's Republican majority
that he and his company, the Lippo Group, had ties to a Chinese government
intelligence agency.	LEAD
In a written statement provided at the end of an interview, Riady also sought to
clarify his relationship with former Democratic Party fund-raiser John Huang.
The Senate Governmental Affairs Committee spent almost a year investigating many
aspects of alleged campaign finance abuses in the 1996 presidential and
congressional elections, including a "plan" by China to influence U.S.
elections.	MAIN
"I did not receive any information from John that I was told was classified, or
that I believed to be classified," Riady said in the statement. "I did not ask
John to give me any American classified intelligence, and to the best of my
knowledge he did not provide me with any such information."	MAIN
Riady, who is deputy chairman of the Lippo Group, one of Indonesia's largest and
most respected conglomerates, also said Huang "did not ask me to channel any
money to America for the purpose of gaining influence for any foreign country in
an American election, and I did not do so."	MAIN
Huang once ran Lippo's U.S. operations. He served in the Commerce Department
beginning in July 1994. After a Sept. 13, 1995, meeting between Riady and
Clinton in the Oval Office, Huang moved over to the Democratic National
Committee in December that year, where he raised money from Asian American
donors. The Senate committee said it had "a single piece of unverified
information" that Huang may have a direct financial relationship with the
Chinese government. The draft report describes the alleged relationship between
the Riady family and Chinese intelligence as "based on business interests," with
the Riadys obtaining Chinese assistance for international business opportunities
"in exchange for large sums of money and other help."	HIST
Riady spoke in his 21-story office building on the outskirts of Jakarta. The
ground rules of the interview prohibited questions on American politics or the
family's alleged links to Chinese intelligence, such as why the family
contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars to Clinton and the Democrats, and
why Huang was in such frequent contact with his former employers at Lippo when
he was at the Commerce Department.	CIRC
The timing of his statement is important. Riady, an ethnic Chinese, is trying to
project a stable image for himself and his company at a time of economic and
social upheaval in Indonesia.	EVAL
Riady also would like to improve his image in the United States, a country he
says he loved and admired. But in the limelight he attracted in his 15 to 20
visits to the White House, including three to the Oval Office where he discussed
policy matters with Clinton, he got a taste of American culture that he didn't
bargain for, he says.	VERB
"American values, I think I must say, have deteriorated," he said. "I think what
you see in the television forms the image of what the truth is. Actually what it
has become is, the perception is more important than the truth."	VERB
So far the Senate panel's allegations appear to have left the reputation of
Riady and his father, Mochtar, as good businessmen intact in Indonesia. Indeed,
in a country like Indonesia, giving money to influential friends -- in this case
President Clinton -- simply makes good business sense.	EVAL
From his office, where several framed pictures of himself with Clinton decorate
a bookshelf and desk, Riady portrayed the Lippo Group as one of Indonesia's most
durable companies, with an American-inspired dream of developing glittering
shopping malls and residential communities.	EVAL
"We like to focus more on the vision that we have, and our eyes are still
focused on that vision," he said. "We're not quite like America yet, but
obviously that becomes our target of what we'd like to do."	VERB
It includes expanding business in China and elsewhere. Lippo sources said
business in China currently represents 5 percent of the company's total assets,
but company executives predict that in two or three decades that figure could
grow to 30 percent.	VERB
"We have always felt that China presents extremely good long-term prospects,"
Riady said. "But that's what it is -- prospects."	VERB
"In the short term there are lots of risks, volatility, as the government tries
to shift and structure its economy from a basically state economy to more and
more open economy and private enterprise," he said. "During that shift there's a
lot of uncertainties and a lot of volatility. So what we try to do is try to
look in the long term, but in the short term try to limit our investments to a
manageable level."	VERB
Despite his dreams, Riady still has to deal with the short term, namely,
wrestling with Indonesia's economic crisis.	EVAL
A $ 43 billion bailout by the International Monetary Fund is supposed to help
get the sprawling archipelago back on its feet, but the government has been slow
to implement reforms. An acute money problem -- the local currency, the rupiah,
has lost more than two-thirds of its value in the past eight months -- has many
companies on the verge of bankruptcy because they can't pay their debts.	CIRC
In this regard, Lippo has done fairly well. Riady said that in the last two
years the company has incurred no debt at all.	VERB
But there are cracks in the Lippo veneer. Riady acknowledged that Lippo-owned
banks had lost 10 percent of their deposits, and that the company's retail
business is down 20 percent to 30 percent.	VERB
Despite the overall economic problems plaguing Indonesia, and the resulting
crisis of confidence, Riady still promotes the nation as "the best place for
investments." And he says it is not true that personal connections determine
success or failure here.	VERB
"I think in any country connections are important because at the end of the day
you want to know the policy directions of the government," he said. "So
relationships and connections are important and are helpful, but I think it is
unwise to base your business on those connections."	VERB

UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 18-
 


Having won backing for a diplomatic mission from the five permanent members of 
the Security Council, U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said today that his trip 
to Baghdad was the last chance to head off a war.	LEAD
Annan intends to leave Thursday carrying a compromise by the Security Council 
intended to allow Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to back down while saving face. 
The compromise would have diplomats tag along with U.N. weapons inspectors to 
the eight presidential palaces that the Iraqi government has declared 
off-limits.	MAIN
Diplomats here said that Iraq was aware of the proposed face-saving compromise 
on Tuesday when it formally welcomed Annan's announced visit. But they said 
there is no indication at this point whether it might be an acceptable cover for 
Saddam Hussein, allowing him to backtrack on months of provocations that have 
led the United States to prepare a massive air attack on Iraq.	VERB
While acknowledging that "this obviously is not going to be an easy mission," 
Annan said today that he has been in frequent touch with the Iraqi government 
and is "encouraged by the message coming from Baghdad that they are prepared to 
engage me constructively to find a solution."	VERB
Annan, a Ghanaian facing by far the greatest diplomatic challenge of his 13 
months as secretary general, is due in Baghdad on Friday after a stop in Paris. 
He said he will stay in Iraq for no more than two days before returning to brief 
the Security Council.	MAIN
Under the proposal, said one senior U.N. diplomat, diplomatic observers "can 
stand around" and provide the Iraqi government with a "fig leaf" of 
international respect for its sovereignty as U.N. inspectors do their job with 
no time limits imposed. Baghdad's most recent offer had been to open the closed 
sites to inspection for 60 days -- an offer the United States rejected.	VERB
American support for Annan's mission was couched today in language that ranged 
from carefully supportive to bluntly pessimistic. White House spokesman Michael 
McCurry said, "There's been no indication from the government of Iraq that would 
lead anyone to be optimistic."	VERB
Bill Richardson, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, was only slightly 
more encouraging. He wished Annan "Godspeed," described him as "very skilled" 
and said he had the "full support" of President Clinton. But Richardson insisted 
that nothing Annan does -- short of coaxing Saddam Hussein into giving U.N. 
weapons inspectors "unconditional, unfettered" access to suspected weapons sites 
-- will defuse the crisis.	VERB
"If Iraq does not comply, there are going to be some very, very serious 
consequences," Richardson warned.	VERB
The United Nations has been down this foggy road before with Saddam Hussein. In 
1991, then-Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar made an abortive trip to 
Baghdad trying to head off the Gulf War. Saddam Hussein kept him waiting an 
entire day before seeing the U.N. leader and then refused to pull his troops out 
of Kuwait.	HIST
Annan suggested today that he has given considerable thought to his 
predecessor's humiliation. He said that in recent days he has been on the phone 
to Paris to speak with Perez de Cuellar. "I know about his experience and 
probably will see him on my way through Paris," Annan said.	VERB
Asked about Annan's mission, Perez de Cuellar told reporters that he is hoping 
the secretary general will produce a "miracle."	VERB
A senior U.N. diplomat said Annan understands the trip to Baghdad puts him in a 
vulnerable position that may damage the image of the United Nations, but added 
that the secretary general believes he has no choice but to go. "It's not going 
to be good for the United Nations to fail, but it wouldn't be good for the 
United Nations to do nothing," said the diplomat.	VERB
Besides being in the dark about whether Saddam Hussein is prepared to back down, 
the diplomat said Annan also is unclear about whether the U.S. government 
regards his Baghdad trip as a meaningless exercise. "It is hard to know about 
the Americans. They might have already decided to bomb," said the diplomat.	VERB
Having won backing for a diplomatic mission from the five permanent members of
the Security Council, U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said today that his trip
to Baghdad was the last chance to head off a war.	LEAD
Annan intends to leave Thursday carrying a compromise by the Security Council
intended to allow Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to back down while saving face.
The compromise would have diplomats tag along with U.N. weapons inspectors to
the eight presidential palaces that the Iraqi government has declared
off-limits.	MAIN
Diplomats here said that Iraq was aware of the proposed face-saving compromise
on Tuesday when it formally welcomed Annan's announced visit. But they said
there is no indication at this point whether it might be an acceptable cover for
Saddam Hussein, allowing him to backtrack on months of provocations that have
led the United States to prepare a massive air attack on Iraq.	VERB
While acknowledging that "this obviously is not going to be an easy mission,"
Annan said today that he has been in frequent touch with the Iraqi government
and is "encouraged by the message coming from Baghdad that they are prepared to
engage me constructively to find a solution."	VERB
Annan, a Ghanaian facing by far the greatest diplomatic challenge of his 13
months as secretary general, is due in Baghdad on Friday after a stop in Paris.
He said he will stay in Iraq for no more than two days before returning to brief
the Security Council.	MAIN
Under the proposal, said one senior U.N. diplomat, diplomatic observers "can
stand around" and provide the Iraqi government with a "fig leaf" of
international respect for its sovereignty as U.N. inspectors do their job with
no time limits imposed. Baghdad's most recent offer had been to open the closed
sites to inspection for 60 days -- an offer the United States rejected.	VERB
American support for Annan's mission was couched today in language that ranged
from carefully supportive to bluntly pessimistic. White House spokesman Michael
McCurry said, "There's been no indication from the government of Iraq that would
lead anyone to be optimistic."	VERB
Bill Richardson, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, was only slightly
more encouraging. He wished Annan "Godspeed," described him as "very skilled"
and said he had the "full support" of President Clinton. But Richardson insisted
that nothing Annan does -- short of coaxing Saddam Hussein into giving U.N.
weapons inspectors "unconditional, unfettered" access to suspected weapons sites
-- will defuse the crisis.	VERB
"If Iraq does not comply, there are going to be some very, very serious
consequences," Richardson warned.	VERB
The United Nations has been down this foggy road before with Saddam Hussein. In
1991, then-Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar made an abortive trip to
Baghdad trying to head off the Gulf War. Saddam Hussein kept him waiting an
entire day before seeing the U.N. leader and then refused to pull his troops out
of Kuwait.	HIST
Annan suggested today that he has given considerable thought to his
predecessor's humiliation. He said that in recent days he has been on the phone
to Paris to speak with Perez de Cuellar. "I know about his experience and
probably will see him on my way through Paris," Annan said.	VERB
Asked about Annan's mission, Perez de Cuellar told reporters that he is hoping
the secretary general will produce a "miracle."	VERB
A senior U.N. diplomat said Annan understands the trip to Baghdad puts him in a
vulnerable position that may damage the image of the United Nations, but added
that the secretary general believes he has no choice but to go. "It's not going
to be good for the United Nations to fail, but it wouldn't be good for the
United Nations to do nothing," said the diplomat.	VERB
Besides being in the dark about whether Saddam Hussein is prepared to back down,
the diplomat said Annan also is unclear about whether the U.S. government
regards his Baghdad trip as a meaningless exercise. "It is hard to know about
the Americans. They might have already decided to bomb," said the diplomat.	VERB

Calls for a diplomatic solution to the Iraq crisis bounded around the Middle
East today as leaders anticipated a still unscheduled mission to Baghdad by U.N.
Secretary General Kofi Annan.	LEAD
A visit by the top U.N. diplomat has come to be regarded throughout the region
as the world body's last chance to avert airstrikes on Iraq by U.S. and British
bombers massed in the Persian Gulf region. No one on any side of the issue seems
to oppose the visit, although opinions diverge on just what it would take to
defuse the crisis.	EVAL
Washington and London are demanding unimpeded access by U.N arms inspectors to
suspected storage and production sites for chemical and biological weapons in
Iraq. The Iraqi leadership wants to alter the makeup of the inspection teams and
limit their access.	CIRC
In Baghdad, the government of President Saddam Hussein hosted a three-member
U.N. map-making team that arrived to survey eight presidential complexes that
arms inspectors think may be storage or production sites for chemical and
biological weapons. The Iraqis seemed eager to display cooperation but also to
indicate that the survey was a limited exercise, designed to lay the groundwork
for a visit by Annan.	CIRC
Iraqi helicopters ferried the U.N. team over the sites, and officials permitted
ground visits for mapping purposes, Iraqi officials said. The exercise, said
Iraqi Foreign Minister Mohammed Saeed Sahhaf, is meant to "prepare the
information about the presidential sites . . . how many acres, are they
surrounded by fences, to prepare the maps. So when the secretary general
arrives, he will find precise information. That's all."	VERB
At the same time, Iraq insisted that inspections are unnecessary, saying that
its biological and chemical weapons, as well as missiles to deliver them, have
long been eliminated.	VERB
"The facts are that Iraq declared those weapons [to the United Nations], and
Iraq destroyed them," said Gen. Amir Saadi, an Iraqi presidential adviser.	VERB
Meanwhile, each passing day brings new evidence that the alliance that staunchly
supported the U.S.-led bombing of Iraq in 1991 and the subsequent freeing of
Kuwait from Iraqi occupation has disintegrated. Most of the Middle East partners
in the Persian Gulf War are now pressing for a peaceful outcome of the present
crisis.	EVAL
The defense minister of the United Arab Emirates, Mohammed bin Rashid Maktum,
said, "We do not agree to attack Iraq" because of possible civilian casualties.
Saudi Arabia's defense minister, Prince Sultan, reiterated his government's
refusal to let American planes use Saudi bases to launch air raids.	VERB
Here, Jordanian officials repeatedly expressed hope that bombing will not be
necessary. Jordan has a complex relationship with Iraq, since it depends on its
ostracized neighbor for oil supplies. Today, the Jordanians signed a $ 225
million barter deal with Iraq under which it will trade soap, cooking oil and
other household goods for fuel.	CIRC
Jordan is exempt from U.N. prohibitions on trade with Iraq. The arid kingdom has
been cut off from its main supplier, Saudi Arabia, since the Gulf War because
King Hussein did not wholeheartedly condemn Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Iraq also
offers Jordan more favorable prices than Persian Gulf states that might also be
willing to fill its fuel needs.	CIRC

To the cheers of hundreds of employees, Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt vowed
yesterday to fight a perjury investigation by an independent counsel and
predicted "absolute vindication" for himself and his department.	LEAD
"The times are out of sync and so is the system," Babbitt told a sympathetic
audience that greeted him with a standing ovation in Interior's main auditorium.
He said he has been tempted over the past few months "to say the hell with it. .
. . I'm going home," but not anymore.	MAIN
"I'm here. I'm going to fight this out to the bitter end and we will be
vindicated," he declared.	MAIN
Attorney General Janet Reno asked on Wednesday for appointment of an independent
counsel to determine whether Babbitt lied to Congress last fall about his
handling of a proposed Indian gambling casino.	CIRC
Tribes opposed to the Hudson, Wis., casino project, which was rejected by
Interior in July 1995, contributed more than $ 350,000 to Democrats for the 1996
campaign and launched a full-scale lobbying drive aimed at securing the Interior
Department's decision.	CIRC
Reno's petition is awaiting action by a special panel of three federal judges
who will name the outside counsel and have the final say on the scope of the
investigation. It will be the first to grow out of alleged fund-raising abuses
by the Clinton-Gore reelection effort.	CIRC
Babbitt's 15-minute meeting with employees yesterday morning in the 750-seat
auditorium was billed as an occasion to "address concerns" they might have about
the investigation and lay out his plans for the coming year "to further enhance
the administration's environmental and cultural resources agenda." It had some
of the trappings of a campaign rally, with workers handed red-lettered "FOBB" --
Friend of Bruce Babbitt -- stickers to put on their lapels.	CIRC
A former Arizona governor and 1988 Democratic presidential contender, Babbitt
seemed buoyed by the full-house reception, shaking hands as he came down the
aisle and deftly abandoning a podium with scratchy microphones to begin without
one at center stage.	CONS
"Well, the Burton committee is doing its work," he quipped when the second mike
wouldn't work.	CONS
The House Government Reform and Oversight Committee headed by Rep. Dan Burton
(R-Ind.) recently concluded two weeks of hearings on the casino controversy with
GOP calls for an independent counsel with a broader mandate than Reno
recommended. Republicans contend the decision to reject the casino was
improperly influenced by the prospect of Democratic campaign contributions from
opposing tribes and by pressures from White House and Democratic Party
officials.	CIRC
Babbitt has repeatedly denied that allegation, saying the decision was made on
recommendations of career Interior officials unaffected by heavy lobbying on
both sides of the issue.	CIRC
"There is a corrosive, antagonistic, bitter, combative culture which has settled
over this town," Babbitt said. He said "all the facts" have been made public and
all the participants have been "interviewed, deposed, harassed [and] testified"
many times, but his critics refuse to be "swayed by the facts."	VERB
And so, Babbitt said, to rousing applause, "here I am. And here I'm going to
stay."	MAIN
Babbitt's predicament stems from a conversation he had with Paul Eckstein, an
old friend hired as a lobbyist by pro-casino forces, on July 14, 1995, the day
the casino application was rejected. Eckstein has testified that when he asked
for a delay, Babbitt told him that Harold Ickes, then White House deputy chief
of staff, had called and directed him to make a decision that day.	CIRC
Babbitt, when testifying before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee last
fall, said he did invoke Ickes's name, but only in an "awkward" effort to end
the meeting. He also said that Ickes had not directed him to make the decision
that day.	CIRC
Reno said Wednesday that Babbitt may have perjured himself or violated the false
statement statute, but in view of his status as a Cabinet member, only an
independent counsel could resolve the question. Reno also left open the
possibility that a wider investigation into allegations of White House influence
might be needed.	VERB
Encouraged by what he said were constant expressions of support, "in person, on
street corners, in airports, again and again," Babbitt was nonetheless
frustrated by the prospect of another inquiry. His lawyer, Lloyd N. Cutler, said
in a telephone interview that he anticipates appointment of an independent
counsel in a few days, but he noted that it will probably take a month or two
before the investigation gets rolling.	CIRC
"We are quite confident it will not end up in a proceeding against Bruce," said
Cutler, who served briefly as President Clinton's White House counsel. "I'm
afraid we've reached a point where if an independent counsel is even requested,
there must be something criminal there. That's not true at all."	VERB
On a stoic note, Babbitt told his employees, "Life is not always fair. . . .
Sometimes you are in an intersection at the wrong time and the wrong place and
you get broadsided through no fault of your own. . . . The important thing, of
course, is not to be deterred."	MAIN

The head of the International Monetary Fund wrote a private letter to
Indonesia's President Suharto threatening to cut off bailout money because of a
dispute over economic policy, raising the prospect that the international effort
to stem Asia's financial crisis could come unglued.	LEAD
President Clinton called Suharto last night to reinforce the IMF position in the
dispute, administration officials said yesterday.	CONS
The confrontation between the Indonesian president and his would-be rescuers
came as Indonesia's crisis deepened across both economic and political lines.
The Indonesian rupiah, which had been climbing, plunged as much as 24 percent
against the U.S. dollar. And the country suffered one of the worst outbreaks of
violence since the onset of its economic troubles, with thousands of rioters in
four towns looting and burning shops in protest over rising food prices.	CIRC
The letter from IMF Managing Director Michel Camdessus, which was dated
Wednesday and obtained by The Washington Post, came in response to evidence that
Suharto is planning to change Indonesia's monetary system radically, adopting a
Hong Kong-style "currency board" in which the value of the rupiah would be
rigidly fixed against the dollar and the Indonesian authorities essentially
would abandon control over interest rates.	CIRC
The IMF staff, backed by the U.S.
Treasury and economic officials in other major countries, believes that
Indonesia is at present incapable of credibly sustaining such a fixed exchange
rate. Camdessus wrote that if Jakarta implemented the move anytime soon, he
would urge the board of the 182-nation organization to suspend the $ 43 billion
bailout of Indonesia's economy.	CIRC
The imbroglio over the seemingly arcane currency issue threatens to plunge
Indonesia -- and possibly its neighbors as well -- into a renewed bout of
financial turmoil, analysts said.	CONS
The stock markets and currencies of Indonesia and several other ailing Asian
countries, including South Korea, Thailand and Malaysia, have recovered some of
their losses in recent weeks. The growing sense of stability raised hope in
financial capitals and official circles that the worst of the region's financial
problems may have passed following the commitment of more than $ 100 billion in
loans from the IMF, World Bank and wealthy nations to the region.	CIRC
But Indonesia, the world's fourth-most-populous country, is widely viewed by
analysts and officials alike as the nation most likely to drag the region back
into crisis.	EXPE
The rupiah, which fell as much as 80 percent from its value last
summer, remains severely depressed, making imports hugely expensive -- so much
so that many manufacturing companies cannot afford to import the raw materials
they need.	PREV
And amid increased incidents of rioting in recent weeks, fears are rising that
the country could become engulfed by social unrest and attacks by majority
Muslims against the ethnic Chinese minority that might undermine stability
throughout Asia.	PREV
Warning that Indonesia's problems could spread quickly, the governor of the
country's central bank, Soedradjad Djiwandono, was quoted as saying in wire
service reports yesterday that "contagion effects can be rapid, overwhelming and
costly even to countries that have maintained consistently sound economic
policies."	VERB
The rupiah's slide, to as low as 9,600 per dollar from 7,300 per dollar
yesterday, drove other Southeast Asian currencies downward, including the Thai
baht and the Malaysian ringgit, although the other currencies later rose as the
rupiah recovered to about 8,600 per dollar.	CIRC
Fueling the currency drops were reports that the clash between Suharto and the
IMF was intensifying over the currency board issue, which aroused fears that
Indonesia would lose international backing that it badly needs to restore
investor confidence.	CONS
Suharto has made it clear that he favors a currency board plan championed by a
Johns Hopkins University professor, Steve H. Hanke, to fix the exchange rate
permanently at about 5,000 rupiah per dollar.	CIRC
Under a currency board, a country's monetary authorities essentially pledge to
put stability in the exchange rate above all other objectives, including
economic growth, cheap credit and employment. They maintain a large reserve of
dollars available to exchange the local currency at the fixed rate, and promise
not to print more money without adding to their reserve of dollars.	EVAL
Among the most successful examples of currency boards is Argentina's, which
eliminated hyperinflation after implementing the approach in 1991, although the
Buenos Aires regime has suffered through periods of very high interest rates and
recession to maintain its fixed rate of one peso per dollar.	EVAL
Contacted by phone in Jakarta where he arrived yesterday to meet with Suharto,
Hanke blasted the Clinton administration and the IMF for trying to torpedo his
idea. He noted that the rupiah had staged a powerful rally earlier this week as
news emerged that a currency board might soon be introduced -- and that its
partial recovery from Friday's tailspin came after he announced at a news
conference that Suharto plans to press ahead with a board.	VERB
"We're completely puzzled as to why the Clinton administration and the IMF seems
intent on destabilizing the currency and the country," Hanke said. "All the
other currencies in the region are going up and down with the rupiah. So they
[the administration and the IMF] are destabilizing the whole region. If this
currency board doesn't go ahead, we're going to have total meltdown."	VERB
But in Washington, the IMF was issuing its strongest public criticism to date of
Jakarta's proposed adoption of a currency board, and a special IMF
representative, Prabhakar Narvekar, met with Suharto in an effort to dissuade
him, according to wire service reports.	VERB
In a speech, Camdessus said he was of "the strong view" that the time for a
fixed currency in Indonesia "has not yet come," because "a number of
preconditions have to be satisfied." Among these, he said, was the need for
Jakarta to obtain substantial reserves of dollars and strengthen the country's
battered banking system. If Indonesia fixed its exchange rate without holding
more dollars in reserve, it would invite speculators to attack the rupiah, the
IMF believes, and Indonesia's cash-strapped banks might collapse if the
authorities gave up their ability to print money.	VERB
Camdessus and Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers declined to answer
reporters' questions yesterday about whether the IMF would cut off funding to
Indonesia.	VERB
In his letter, however, Camdessus wrote: "In the present circumstances . . . if
a currency board proposal were adopted, we would not be able to recommend to the
IMF Board the continuation of the present program because of the risks to the
Indonesian economy. This would be a very unfortunate development, as it would
shrink even further the reserve basis for the currency board and further
undermine its very slim chances of success."	VERB
Camdessus said the IMF might favor a currency board for Indonesia once the
necessary conditions are met. Hanke retorted that in his opinion, Indonesia
already has met the necessary conditions, and he said he doesn't believe Suharto
will capitulate to IMF pressure.	VERB

Vice Premier Zhu Rongji is pushing a controversial plan to streamline China's
bloated government bureaucracy that would take effect just after next month's
session of the National People's Congress.	LEAD
Zhu wants to merge several ministries whose duties overlap. Sources suggest 10
or more ministries could be merged with others or abolished. In addition, Zhu is
planning to take ministries overseeing industries and convert them into
state-owned companies that would be expected to run on a more efficient,
economically viable basis.	MAIN
"At present, governmental agencies manage a lot of things they shouldn't manage
and can't manage well," said Zhang Xiuxue, vice president of the Chinese
National School of Administration. "The expansion of government agencies has
hindered economic development."	VERB
But Zhang said the proposed government overhaul "is still very difficult. Some
people don't want to give up the authority they already have."	VERB
"Few people oppose Zhu's idea for streamlining government," said a government
official, "except when it comes to their own ministry or department."	VERB
Despite widespread opposition to the plan from people who would lose status,
authority or even their jobs, most analysts said Zhu will, for the most part,
get his way. The powerful vice premier, who has been the government's chief
economic policymaker, is widely expected to become China's new premier during
the Party Congress next month. With the rest of Asia in the throes of economic
crisis, few Chinese leaders would want to undermine the authority of the person
who is considered most responsible for helping China avoid the fate of its
neighbors.	EXPE
In what appeared to be an effort to divert some flak away from Zhu, Hu Jintao,
another member of the Communist Party's all-powerful seven-man Standing
Committee, is leading the working committee nominally in charge of devising the
streamlining plan.	CONS
In the past, many government departments were created to serve as power bases
for political groups within the ruling Communist Party and as rewards for
long-serving party cadres. There are 40 ministries under the State Council,
China's cabinet, plus eight institutions, 13 administrations and bureaus, and
seven offices.	CIRC
Now, Zhu is proposing to merge bodies that duplicate each other's work. For
example, the State Commission for Economic Restructuring might merge with the
State Council's Development Research Center. The Ministry of Labor and the
Ministry of Personnel could combine. The Ministry of Communications could join
the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. The Ministry of Culture and
Ministry of Radio, Film and Television also have been tapped for possible
consolidation.	MAIN
The ministries dealing with particular industries are likely to become
state-owned corporations. At the top of that list is the Ministry of the
Chemical Industry, sources said. Other possibilities are the ministries for
railways, the electronics industry, machine-building plants and coal mining.
	EXPE
Most of these ministries are swollen with unneeded employees.	CIRC
Conversion to state-owned corporations is no guarantee of improved performance,
however.	EVAL
The petroleum ministry was converted to the Chinese National Petroleum
Corp. several years ago, but it still is struggling to trim its staff and
improve efficiency. The corporation employs a staggering 1.51 million people in
a wide range of tasks, from running universities to building roads, from
drilling wells to making watches, from maintaining pipelines to operating
hospitals.	HIST
On Sunday, the corporation said it would launch a new set of reforms, including
laying off 250,000 workers. It said it also would seek to delegate managerial
responsibility to subsidiaries and list certain parts of its business on
domestic and international markets.	CONS
The airline and railway industries also have announced massive layoffs.	CONS
The current drive to streamline government is not the first time Zhu has taken
on entrenched interests within China's system of governing, but in the past they
were mostly at the provincial level. As vice premier and president of the
People's Bank of China in 1995, Zhu clamped down on the free flow of credit from
provincial branches of the bank to projects and state-owned enterprises favored
by provincial officials. He also overhauled tax revenue sharing to stop the
slide in the central government's share of national tax revenues.	HIST

The usually soft-spoken Perdue will travel to Annapolis on Wednesday to defend
his industry at a House of Delegates hearing where lawmakers will take up plans
to fight the toxic microbe Pfiesteria piscicida by threatening farmers with
sanctions if they don't limit the amount of manure they use as fertilizer.	MAIN
James A. Perdue, chairman of the poultry empire that bears his family's name,
probably is best known for his appearances in television commercials selling
chicken. But he finds himself in a new role these days, fending off charges that
his industry is to blame for despoiling the Chesapeake Bay.	LEAD
In a rare hour-and-a-half interview here at Perdue Farms' corporate headquarters
-- a rectangle of offices across the street from the farmhouse where his
grandfather, Arthur Perdue, launched what is now the nation's second-largest
poultry company 78 years ago -- the grandson scoffed at suggestions the bay is
critically threatened.	CONS
He accused Maryland officials of peddling bogus science in proclaiming that
chicken manure is washing off the land and fueled last summer's outbreaks of
pfiesteria. Mostly, he worried about the costs attached to legislation
championed by Gov. Parris N. Glendening (D), which would force farmers to do
something else with the chicken manure they now use as fertilizer.	CONS
"There's a lot of fear and a lot of anxiety," he said. "If the farmer goes out
of business here, we can't grow our chickens on the [Eastern] Shore. It's going
to put our plants out of business on the Shore."	VERB
While even the governor's economic development secretary has expressed concern
that the state's business reputation may be on the line in the debate over
pfiesteria, several trade analysts said talk of major poultry companies packing
up and leaving probably is exaggerated.	VERB
The integrators like Perdue that process and market the birds "aren't going to
leave Maryland," said John C. Bierbusse, a food analyst with A.G. Edwards and
Sons in St. Louis. "The fixed assets are in place, the growers are there. . . .
You can't just pick up a processing plant and move it."	VERB
But others worry the industry could phase out operations here, spending new
capital in places where doing business is cheaper. "I'm not going to build or
enlarge a plant here if I'm not going to be able to do business efficiently,"
said Leonard Teitelbaum, a food analyst at Merrill Lynch in New York. "I may
keep my old ones, but I won't build any new ones."	VERB
Maryland's poultry industry dates to the 1920s, when farmers who raised fruits
and vegetables for sale in big cities such as Baltimore, Philadelphia and New
York opted to add chicken-houses to supplement their income. The sideline has
since matured into an industry that annually produces 300 million chickens worth
more than $ 1 billion, exporting the birds as far as Russia and China.	HIST
The Perdue family says it is descended from French Huguenots who landed near
Assateague Island in the 17th century, subsisting on the timber trade for
several centuries before turning to farming. Given such roots, the modern-day
clan leader frowns at suggestions his family's profitability rests on the right
to pollute the Chesapeake. He calls himself an environmentalist.	HIST
"I drink water
out of the ground here," said Perdue, who shares the penetrating gaze of his
father, Frank Perdue, the man who made the company a household name with ads
that bragged it took a tough man to make a tender chicken. "I fish in the bay
with my son."	VERB
"This idea of the Chesapeake being a dying bay is ridiculous," he said. "The bay
is in the process of being cleaned up."	VERB
He was equally dismissive of Glendening's pfiesteria commission, headed by
former governor Harry R. Hughes, which declared that curbing the flow of
pollutants in animal manure into tributaries of the Chesapeake Bay was the most
promising strategy against the toxic microbe. He called that finding "a nothing
statement, a 'we-don't have-enough-facts' statement."	VERB
Perdue especially was critical of Glendening's decision to pursue mandatory
limits on fertilizers, rather than the voluntary program favored by his
industry. He accused Glendening of opting "to punish farmers, when he ought to
pat them on the back."	VERB
"If the costs of any one thing goes up, you can't survive," he said.	VERB
Glendening's bill is being offered at a time when poultry producers across the
country are struggling with higher feed prices, sagging exports and competition
from lower-priced beef.	CIRC
Perdue said circumstances in Maryland are particularly
dire, because production costs here already are higher than in other regions of
the country. He worried that Glendening's initiative could push his industry
over the edge, forcing it to shift operations elsewhere.	VERB
James Perdue received a doctorate in fisheries from the University of
Washington, before returning to Maryland and the family business in 1983.	HIST
He
said links between farm pollution and pfiesteria are merely "circumstantial,"
and he pilloried those who offer the microbe as evidence that the Chesapeake is
in mortal danger.	VERB

Monica S. Lewinsky spent part of a weekend afternoon in late 1995 alone with
President Clinton in the Oval Office, a retired Secret Service officer said
yesterday.	LEAD
Clinton testified last month that he does not recall ever being alone with
Lewinsky, either while she was employed at the White House or later at the
Pentagon, except perhaps on very brief occasions when she dropped off papers in
his office, according to sources familiar with Clinton's testimony.	PREV
Former uniformed Secret Service officer Lewis C. Fox said in an interview
yesterday that Lewinsky, then a White House intern, spent at least 40 minutes
alone with Clinton while Fox was posted outside the Oval Office door. She had
arrived with papers for the president, he said, and Clinton instructed Fox to
usher her into his office.	MAIN
Clinton was questioned in a closed-door deposition Jan. 17 in the Paula Jones
sexual harassment case about whether he had sexual relationships with Lewinsky
and other government employees.	CIRC
Fox is the first person to publicly say that he saw the president and Lewinsky
alone together. As a result, his statement could be critical to independent
counsel Kenneth W. Starr's attempt to determine whether Clinton did have a
relationship with Lewinsky and then attempt to conceal it.	EVAL
The White House said it could not confirm or deny Fox's account, but raised
questions about it because, an official said, only the president's assistants
allow people in to see him, even on weekends.	VERB
"Without commenting on the specifics, the story is at odds with the common
standard procedure, where White House staff make decisions on access to the Oval
Office, not security officers," said a White House official who asked not to be
named. "That would be a real deviation from standard practice."	VERB
Secret Service spokesman Arnette Heintze said his office would not comment on
what Fox or other Secret Service personnel may have seen because the Lewinsky
matter is the subject of Starr's ongoing investigation.
	VERB
Fox, who retired after 27 years with the Secret Service in January 1997, said he
is uncertain of the exact date when Lewinsky visited the Oval Office, but said
he believes it was a Saturday afternoon in either September, October or November
1995	MAIN
 Lewinsky told onetime friend Linda R. Tripp -- who secretly tape-recorded
many of their conversations and gave them to investigators -- that she began a
sexual relationship with Clinton on Nov. 15, 1995, according to an affidavit
Tripp made in the Jones case.	CIRC
Fox said the day he witnessed Lewinsky visit Clinton, he was posted for a
one-hour shift outside the Oval Office door. It was around midday, he said, and
he had been on duty 15 to 20 minutes when Lewinsky arrived saying she had some
paperwork she needed to bring in to the president.	MAIN
Fox said the president's secretary, Betty Currie, was not on duty that day. Fox
said he opened the Oval Office door and told Clinton there were papers for him.
The president was able to see Lewinsky through the doorway, Fox said, and he
told the officer to send her in. Fox said he remained at his post for another 40
minutes or so before he was relieved by another officer. During that time,
Lewinsky was behind the closed doors of the Oval Office with Clinton.	MAIN
Fox said he was not aware of what occurred between Clinton and Lewinsky.	MAIN
Officials at the television station said they received a subpoena from Starr for
the videotape of the Fox interview and have given it to investigators.	CONS
Fox, who lives in Waynesburg, Pa., was interviewed on WPXI television in
Pittsburgh last week and said he saw Lewinsky in the White House. 	CIRC
Since that
broadcast, he has been contacted by the association that represents Secret
Service officers and discouraged from revealing anything more about what he saw.	CONS
Secret Service director Lewis Merletti has met with lawyers from Starr's office
on the issue of whether agents and officers who guard the president can be
compelled to testify about whether they witnessed encounters between Clinton and
Lewinsky.	CONS
The Secret Service is concerned that allowing agents to testify would set a
dangerous precedent, engendering mistrust at the White House and ultimately
making it more difficult for them to guard the president. With that matter
unresolved, Starr has refrained from subpoenaing any Secret Service officers,
including Fox.	CONS

In a driving hail storm, a small knot of rowdy Palestinian teenagers
demonstrated their support for Iraq and President Saddam Hussein today in the
time-honored way -- by holding a lighter to an American flag. No go; the flag
was soaked.	LEAD
So, with television cameras rolling and everyone dripping wet, they resorted to
tearing the flag to pieces.	LEAD
It was a soggy reenactment of the larger and more passionate pro-Iraqi
demonstrations of 1991, when Palestine Liberation Organization Chairman Yasser
Arafat openly sided with Saddam Hussein during the Persian Gulf War and
thousands of Palestinians cheered.	HIST
The fallout from Iraq's defeat in that war took its toll on Palestinians
economically and politically. Today, as another showdown in the Persian Gulf
looms, many Palestinians still support Saddam Hussein. But this time, their
leaders mostly are keeping their heads down.	MAIN
The Palestinian leadership's muted response to the latest gulf crisis reflects a
new political reality. The 1991 war came in the midst of the intifada, the
six-year Palestinian uprising against Israeli occupation of the West Bank and
Gaza Strip. Most Palestinians perceived the United States as their enemy, and
Saddam Hussein was revered as an Arab leader with the guts to take on
Washington.	HIST
Today, four years after Arafat and the late Israeli leader, Yitzhak Rabin,
launched a peace process under U.S. auspices, Palestinians have too much to lose
by being seen to embrace the Iraqi president. Although negotiations have been
stalled for nearly a year, the Palestinians are aware that only Washington has
the clout to get the peace process moving again.	EVAL
In recent days, as small street rallies in Gaza and the West Bank have captured
air time on the evening news, Arafat and his lieutenants have been all but
invisible. When they do make an appearance, it is generally to express blandly
their support for the Iraqi people and their hopes for a diplomatic solution and
to complain that Washington is treating Baghdad unfairly. Generally, Saddam
Hussein's name does not pass their lips.	MAIN
Although Arafat's Fatah faction of the PLO is organizing some of the street
protests, Fatah officials have explained almost apologetically that they are
merely a way for Palestinians to let off steam. The rallies are a way for
Palestinians "to let out their frustrations" over the deadlock in the
Israeli-Palestinian peace process and a perceived U.S. double standard in
dealing with Israel and the Arabs, Marwan Barghouti, a Fatah leader, told the
Associated Press.	CIRC
In the West Bank town of Bethlehem, south of Jerusalem, 14 Palestinians were
injured Saturday when Israeli troops fired rubber-coated metal bullets at a few
hundred demonstrators who attacked them with stones. Today, in the northern West
Bank town of Jenin, between 1,000 and 2,000 demonstrators carried posters of
Saddam Hussein and Arafat. "Death to Clinton and Blair," read one banner,
referring to British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who has supported President
Clinton's Iraqi policy.	CIRC
And here in Ramallah, north of Jerusalem, about 150 marchers burned U.S.,
Israeli and British flags and chanted, "With our blood and soul, we will redeem
you, Saddam." Demonstrators eluded Palestinian police to throw stones at Israeli
troops, who fired rubber-coated bullets to disperse them.	CIRC
Although small, the rallies show that Saddam Hussein continues to exercise a
hold on the imagination of many Palestinians. In a culture defined by the
conviction that it has been victimized by Israel, many people identify with the
Iraqi leader as another Arab unjustly abused. If Saddam Hussein has weapons of
mass destruction, say many Palestinians, well, so does Israel.	EVAL
"He's defending himself just as we are; he's not doing anything wrong," said
Ramzi Hussein of Ramallah, an aspiring violist in his late teens who wears his
hair high and tight and his politics on his sleeve. "It's his country. He can do
whatever he wants."	VERB
Other Palestinians said they had no special regard for Saddam Hussein, but
nonetheless resented what they regard as Washington's war-mongering. "I don't
care if they want to take Saddam out of power, but if you look at it from a
humanitarian point of view, people are starving" in Iraq, said a Palestinian who
gave his name only as Rob, a thirtyish computer engineer who lives in Arizona
and returned to Ramallah to visit.	VERB
Many Palestinians are aware that the current crisis will do nothing to advance
the peace process or their aspirations for greater autonomy. First, Clinton's
political crisis in Washington seemed to neutralize his attempts to unblock the
stalemated negotiations; now, with the administration's gaze focused on Iraq,
the problems of the West Bank will have to wait even longer.	EVAL
Today, Palestinian and Israeli negotiators headed to Washington for the latest
round of peace talks, but given events in the Persian Gulf, little progress was
expected by either side.	CONS
Meanwhile, Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu has used the Palestinians'
lingering pro-Iraq sentiment to attack them in the media. "It brings back
unpleasant memories, and it shows the need for real acceptance of Israel; that
has not sunk in," he said today.	VERB

BTG Inc.'s chairman yesterday rescinded the dismissals of four vice presidents
who were unexpectedly fired Monday after an abortive bid to purchase a BTG
division, company sources said. The executives were allowed to resign instead.	LEAD
Ed Bersoff, the Fairfax company's chief executive, announced the decision in a
company-wide electronic message sent out after 5 p.m. The e-mail message, a copy
of which was obtained by The Washington Post, said the four vice presidents have
"chosen to resign effective February 6, 1998, to pursue other interests. I
regret any disruptions that may have been caused to these individuals or others
in the company."	MAIN
The e-mail was part of a settlement agreement between BTG and the four vice
presidents. Neither party would discuss the details of the settlement.	MAIN
The vice presidents -- Scott Reynolds, Paul Collins, Steve Schlosser and Brian
Nightingale -- had joined with another company vice president to make a $ 28
million cash bid for the company's technology systems division.	CIRC
BTG had previously agreed to sell the division to a fierce rival,
Chantilly-based Government Technology Services Inc., for about $ 23 million in
cash and stock, but the five BTG executives never appeared to have lined up
viable financing for their offer.	CIRC
BTG expects to close the deal with GTSI in the next few days. The division being
sold is a fast-growing but marginally profitable unit that filled large computer
orders from government agencies.	EXPE
On Monday morning at 11:30, Bersoff fired the four vice presidents at an
impromptu meeting. Four lower-level staffers who worked closely with the
executives also were fired later that day; Bersoff rescinded those terminations
too, according to the e-mail company employees received yesterday.	MAIN
Steve Baldwin, the fifth BTG vice president involved in the management bid,
resigned Monday night. Baldwin, the most senior official within the management
group, said yesterday he has a number of issues with BTG left to be resolved
"that I am assessing as I move forward."	MAIN
Bersoff leveled several allegations against the vice presidents as he fired them
Monday, but no one present at the meeting would discuss them on the record.	CONS
Later Monday, however, Bersoff sent out a company-wide e-mail in which he said
the four vice presidents had been fired "with cause" and that they had engaged
in activities "designed to disrupt BTG's operation and to put the job of all the
technology systems employees at risk."	CIRC
The vice presidents vehemently denied any wrongdoing, and spent much of the week
meeting with their lawyers.	VERB
"We are pleased on behalf of the terminated officers and employees to have
achieved the recision of the termination for cause," said Jack McKay, an
attorney at the Washington office of Shaw, Pittman, Potts & Trowbridge who is
representing eight of the nine BTG employees who left the company.	VERB
"My clients are very satisfied with the e-mail that was distributed today."	VERB
Bersoff, who was reached in Hawaii, where he is attending a conference, would
not comment on the firings or yesterday's e-mail beyond saying, "The parties
have reached an amicable resolution of their differences."	VERB

President Boris Yeltsin strongly warned the United States again today against
using force in Iraq, saying Russia "would not allow" a military strike and
reiterating that it could lead to "world war."	LEAD
The Foreign Ministry added that Russia would not "resort to extreme measures" in
response to President Clinton's order to increase troop levels in the Persian
Gulf.	MAIN
"We should not allow an armed strike, an American strike, whatever the
circumstances," Yeltsin told journalists on the eve of a planned visit to Italy
and the Vatican. "I told Bill Clinton that we would not allow that." He added,
"The most important thing is that we assumed a firm stand: no to the settlement
through the use of force. It is impossible; it will mean a world war."	MAIN
For months, Russia has tried to broker a diplomatic resolution of the tension
over Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's refusal to allow international inspections
of locations where Iraq is believed to harbor weapons of mass destruction.	PREV
But Russia has taken a higher profile in recent days with Yeltsin's blunt,
public warnings against a military strike, which contrasted with earlier
diplomatic initiatives that skirted any collision with the United States.
Yeltsin used the "world war" formulation Wednesday as well, and aides scrambled
afterward to say that it was not a threat of military retaliation.	CIRC
Yeltsin's warnings dovetail with criticism of U.S. actions by Russia's
nationalists and Communists in parliament. Unlike the confrontation with Iraq in
1990-91, there are few voices here today arguing for cooperation with the United
States.	CIRC
The Iraqi news agency INA reported today from Baghdad that the National Assembly
had invited a group from Russia's lower house of parliament, the State Duma, to
visit some of the disputed sites -- the presidential palaces from which U.N.
inspectors have been barred.	CIRC
Yeltsin said today he saw the crisis easing slightly. "I am an optimist," he
added. "We still cannot say with confidence that everything is all right, that
another heightening of tension is out of the question. Nevertheless, the recent
peak of tension was brought down a little. Tension is on the way down."	VERB
Yeltsin claimed Russia's position had attracted support from France and Italy.
"Britain is still somewhat hesitant," he said, but he added that Prime Minister
Tony Blair had promised in a telephone call Wednesday not to send more military
equipment to the Persian Gulf.	VERB
At the same time, Russia's Foreign Ministry issued a statement saying the threat
of U.S. military action still exists. Russia believes that "using force in Iraq
or threatening to do so is extremely dangerous under any circumstances," the
ministry said.	MAIN
Deputy Foreign Minister Viktor Posuvalyuk remains in Baghdad, where he has been
negotiating with Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz. Earlier this week,
Russian officials had called his mission a success, saying he had worked out a
compromise allowing for the conditional inspection of eight sites. Iraq denied
there was any deal.	CIRC
Today, the Interfax news agency quoted a Russian official as saying the process
of resolving the crisis was "at the start of the road" and that it was premature
to conclude that Iraq's position had changed.	CONS

President Clinton's latest emissary to Indonesia, Walter F. Mondale, leaves for
Jakarta today to warn President Suharto against deviating from his pledge of
economic reforms -- but also to admonish that Indonesia's problems now go far
deeper than economics.	LEAD
The visit by Mondale, the former vice president and ambassador to Japan, comes
as concern mounts among officials of the Clinton administration and the
International Monetary Fund that Suharto is reverting to old-style favoritism
toward cronies and relatives, flouting commitments he made to the IMF in
exchange for a $ 43 billion international bailout.	CIRC
If the Indonesian leader is to lure back the capital that has fled his country,
these officials argue, he must not only follow the IMF's prescriptions, but take
political steps to inspire confidence among investors that Indonesia is headed
on a long-term reform path that will minimize the risk of a social explosion.
Officials were reluctant to specify what political measures Mondale might
recommend, but Washington has urged the authoritarian Suharto for years to
welcome a greater diversity of views in his government and rely less on the
tight circle that benefits economically from the present system.	CIRC
"We want Indonesia to stabilize and grow again," a senior administration
official said. "But we're also quite convinced that in order to do it, they have
to recommit, both in word and deed to the IMF program -- and to make sure that
they are fostering a political situation that can sustain that program."	VERB
But Mondale will have a tough sell, officials admit. Even if Suharto follows
Washington's advice, it is far from clear that Indonesia will recover anytime
soon from a crisis that has sent inflation and joblessness soaring, sparking
violence by resentful members of Indonesia's Muslim majority against the wealthy
ethnic Chinese minority.	EVAL
The 76-year-old Suharto is deeply disillusioned by the failure of the IMF
bailout to improve the economic outlook, according to officials who have spoken
with him. Following a visit last month by Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H.
Summers and the IMF's two top officials, Suharto signed an expanded list of
promises to dismantle monopolies and end subsidies that favor his children and
tycoon friends. His reward from international investors: The nation's currency,
the rupiah, plunged to new depths.	CIRC
U.S. and IMF officials contend that Suharto is to blame for undermining investor
confidence. Cartels that were supposed to be eliminated have been revived under
new guises. The independent-minded central bank governor was fired, and the
government began considering establishing a "currency board" that would rigidly
fix the value of the rupiah against the U.S. dollar -- a move Washington
dismissed as unworkable.	PREV
Another problem is that many ethnic Chinese, who have funneled their money to
Singapore and other havens, are reluctant to bring their wealth back to
Indonesia because of the anti-Chinese rioting. So long as the specter of
violence continues to loom, their lack of confidence in Indonesia may persist,
regardless of what reform measures Suharto embraces.	EXPE

US Airways Group Inc. announced plans yesterday to repurchase nearly $ 1 billion
in stock and retire another $ 379 million in debt to bolster the airline's
financial position as it prepares to start new low-cost operations on the East
Coast.	MAIN
US Airways Chairman Stephen M. Wolf, who took over the financially troubled
airline two years ago, said the move was designed to reduce interest and
dividend payments, improve the Arlington-based company's balance sheet and
improve shareholder value. Wolf said in a statement that since he became
chairman, the airline has made "tremendous strides" in both its operating and
financial performance and now is in a position to use its nearly $ 2 billion in
cash to strengthen the value of its stock.	VERB
US Airways recently negotiated contract concessions from its pilots and is in
talks with its other unions on similar contracts as it plans to launch low-cost
service out of Baltimore Washington International airport soon to compete on the
East Coast with Southwest Airlines and Delta Express, Delta's low-cost
operation.	CIRC
The airline said it plans to buy back up to $ 500 million worth of common stock
as well as $ 358 million in preferred stock held by billionaire investor Warren
E. Buffett through affiliates of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. Buffett, who made the
investment in 1989, has the option of converting his holdings into 9.24 million
shares of the airline's common stock at a conversion price of $ 38.74 a share
before US Airways redeems his preferred shares.	MAIN
US Airways stock closed yesterday at $ 62.12 1/2 a share.	CONS
If Buffett converts
and then sells his common shares, he would pocket a profit of more than $ 216
million, not counting at least $ 264 million he's earned in dividend payments.	EVAL
It was unclear yesterday whether Buffett would sell or keep the common stock
once he converts his preferred.	CIRC
In a statement released by his office in Omaha, Buffett praised Wolf for the
management changes he has made and said "after a dismaying period, we are very
pleased with our investment in US Airways." Buffett had once told shareholders
that his investment in the company had been a "mistake."	VERB
When all of the transactions announced yesterday are completed, the airline said
it still would have "significantly more" than $ 1 billion in cash, assuming a
full $ 500 million stock repurchase.	CONS
Wolf and US Airways President Rakesh Gangwal are scheduled to outline the
financial moves, as well as the company's plans for the year, in New York today
to the Society of Airline Analysts.	CONS
In addition to the new operation out of Baltimore, the airline is in the midst
of a major aircraft purchase from Airbus Industrie to eventually replace its
hodgepodge fleet of planes. US Airways also is negotiating with Boeing and
Airbus for the purchase of new wide-bodied jets for transatlantic service.	CIRC
US Airways also is one of the few major airlines without an overseas alliance
with a foreign carrier to help bolster its transatlantic operations. Company
officials have said they would wait until the airline was in a position of
economic strength before they would seek such a partnership. It was unclear
yesterday whether company officials believed they had now reached that point.	CIRC

Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said yesterday she will report to
President Clinton that none of the six Arab leaders she consulted this week
expressed outright opposition to the use of force against Iraq. A senior
official traveling with her suggested that some were openly supportive in
private.	MAIN
In an eight-nation trip through Europe and the Middle East, Albright spoke to
leaders of Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Kuwait, Bahrain and the Palestinian
Authority.	MAIN
"We talked about various implications of using force but . . . I underline that
none of the Arab leaders, specifically, urged me to tell the president not to
use force," she said to reporters aboard her aircraft en route back to
Washington.	CIRC
Albright has stated throughout the trip that the United States is informing
allies of its intentions but is not canvassing for support or asking permission
to enforce the disarmament conditions set by the U.N. Security Council at the
close of the 1991 Persian Gulf War	VERB
 But it is central to the Clinton
administration's strategy now to portray itself as the head of a unified
"international community," and Albright found time for a news conference every
day of the trip in which she recapitulated the support she had received.	EVAL
Earlier, in Egypt, Albright said all six Arab governments agreed on the central
components of the American public rationale for military action: that Iraqi
President Saddam Hussein created the present crisis by defying U.N. weapons
inspectors, that diplomacy is the preferred way to secure his compliance, and
that grave consequences would follow from diplomacy's failure.	MAIN
"In a Security Council resolution, 'grave consequences' is a very significant
statement," said a senior U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity.
"Grave consequences" means that these leaders are all talking about the possible
use of force and blaming that potential outcome on Saddam Hussein, the official
said.	VERB
After a week in which Egypt has voiced its opposition openly to any kind of
military strike against Baghdad, Cairo's measured support marked a clear
softening in tone on the part of a key U.S. ally in the Middle East.	EVAL
In Bahrain, earlier in the day, the government became the third in the Persian
Gulf region -- after Saudi Arabia and Kuwait -- to associate itself with
American threats of military force in the confrontation over U.N. inspection of
Iraqi weapons. U.S. officials said Albright encountered no unexpected opposition
to the use of American combat jets based at the Sheik Isa Air Base there if the
United States decides to bomb Iraq.	MAIN
Washington's Arab allies are far from enthusiastic at the prospect of U.S.
airstrikes against Iraq. Public opinion in Arab countries is deeply sympathetic
to the Iraqi people, if not to the regime of Saddam Hussein, and pro-Western
Arab states are united in emphasizing the need for a diplomatic solution to the
standoff.	EVAL
Adding to diplomatic efforts by France, Russia and Turkey, Egyptian President
Hosni Mubarak has spent the last several days telephoning fellow Arab leaders to
draft a message that will be carried to Saddam Hussein in Baghdad Wednesday by
Arab League Secretary General Esmat Abdel Meguid.	CIRC
Except for Bahrain and Kuwait, none of Washington's Arab allies has given
assurances that it would cooperate in military operations against Iraq should
diplomatic efforts fail. Saudi Arabia is considering a U.S. request to permit
American bombers to fly through its airspace en route to Iraq, and American
support aircraft, such as refueling planes, to fly from Saudi bases.	CONS
Emerging with Albright from a meeting with Mubarak at Ittihadiya Palace in Cairo
this evening, Foreign Minister Amr Moussa used similar language in comments to
reporters. "It is very important that there would be full compliance" with the
U.N. inspections, Moussa said, adding that the two governments agree on the need
to exhaust all diplomatic avenues "in order to avoid grave consequences."	MAIN
At the same time, U.S. officials said they have been gratified by expressions of
support from such key Arab leaders as Jordan's King Hussein and Saudi Arabia's
Crown Prince Abdullah.	VERB
After Abdullah and Albright met for six hours Monday, the
Saudi government agreed in a statement that the failure of diplomatic efforts
would "lead to grave consequences whose responsibility would lie exclusively on
the Iraqi regime."	MAIN
Asked whether Egypt was prepared to back military force against Iraq if
diplomacy fails, Moussa replied, "I'm not ready to go beyond that for the time
being."	VERB
Albright said, "we welcome the fact that others are making an effort to get a
diplomatic solution. But I also have to say that I am skeptical about it given
the kinds of responses that Saddam Hussein has already given to a number of
envoys that have gone there." She repeated previous warnings that any military
strike against Iraq would be "significant."	VERB
[Russia said it was continuing to make progress in its mediation efforts in
Baghdad despite an Iraqi denial Monday of concessions reported in Moscow. French
envoy Bertrand Dufourcq arrived in the Iraqi capital with a message from French
President Jacques Chirac for Saddam Hussein that he planned to deliver on
Wednesday. British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, meanwhile, announced plans to
visit Saudi Arabia and Kuwait this week to discuss the crisis as Kuwait put its
military on higher alert.]	CIRC
In military terms, Egyptian cooperation would make little difference to the
United States, which has concentrated most of its firepower on aircraft carriers
and land bases in the Persian Gulf region. As the largest and arguably most
influential Arab country, however, Egypt can play a crucial role in providing
the administration with political cover as it did when it participated in the
U.S.-led coalition to drive Iraqi troops from Kuwait in the 1991 Persian Gulf
War.	EVAL
The U.S. case for military action was not helped by a recent comment attributed
to chief U.N. weapons inspector Richard Butler to the effect that Saddam Hussein
has enough biological weapons to "blow away Tel Aviv" -- language he later said
was taken out of context.	EVAL
Echoing comments by Mubarak, Egypt's semiofficial Al Ahram newspaper said in a
lead editorial today that Butler's comment "confirmed the beliefs of Arab
citizens that the goal of the U.N. committee is not to implement the U.N.
resolutions but to paralyze Iraq for Israel's benefit."	VERB
But Albright's conversation with Mubarak appears to have softened Egyptian
objections, at least for now.	EVAL
Appearing alongside Albright in Bahrain this morning, Foreign Minister Mohammed
Bin Mubarak Khalifa repeated several elements of the formula that Albright has
pressed in her eight-nation diplomatic campaign. He warned that failure to reach
a diplomatic solution would have serious consequences and that Iraq would be the
responsible party.	CONS

MOSCOW, Feb. 2-
 


As Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright continued her mission seeking the 
support of Persian Gulf states for possible airstrikes against Iraq, Russia, 
France and Turkey today intensified separate diplomatic initiatives aimed at 
averting military action.	LEAD
Russian officials claimed a breakthrough in their talks with Iraq, saying Iraqi 
President Saddam Hussein had given qualified permission for U.N. representatives 
to visit eight presidential sites that were previously off-limits to the U.N. 
weapons inspection teams.	VERB
Iraq, however, dismissed the Russian report as "totally, totally incorrect." 
Iraq's undersecretary for foreign affairs, Riyadh Qaysi, told a news conference 
that "no such thing was discussed" by Saddam Hussein and Russian Deputy Foreign 
Minister Viktor Posuvalyuk in talks in Baghdad tonight.	VERB
Qaysi added: "Discussion with Mr. Posuvalyuk is still going on to find a 
diplomatic and political solution to the crisis. I am not going to provide you 
with even a shade . . . of what is being discussed. Discussions are going on, 
and this is a good thing."	VERB
Officials at the Kremlin and Russian Foreign Ministry, who earlier were hailing 
the offer as a triumph for Russian diplomacy, stopped answering telephone calls 
after word of Iraq's denial of a deal reached Moscow.	CONS
Senior Clinton administration officials reacted coldly to the Russian plan. "I 
don't think it's an appropriate solution at this time," Secretary of Defense 
William S. Cohen said at the Pentagon.	VERB
Asked about the Russian proposal following her talks with Saudi Crown Prince 
Abdullah in Riyadh, Albright said: "Having kind of piecemeal inspections, that 
does not strike me as meeting the basic standards that we have been talking 
about for so long."	VERB
President Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin discussed Iraq during a 
20-minute phone conversation today. A White House official said Clinton stressed 
to Yeltsin "the need for unity" among U.N. Security Council members in seeking 
to force Iraq to accept full access by U.N. weapons inspection teams.	VERB
"The president agreed with Yeltsin on the desirability of a diplomatic solution" 
to the standoff, the official said. "But Clinton said that Saddam Hussein's 
continued defiance of the inspection teams is unacceptable."	VERB
A French envoy reportedly was to set out for Baghdad from the Jordanian capital, 
Amman, on Tuesday. French President Jacques Chirac dispatched top Foreign 
Ministry official Bertrand Dufourcq to Iraq as part of an apparent French gambit 
to reach a diplomatic settlement.	MAIN
A French presidential spokeswoman said Dufourcq was carrying a "very firm" 
message to Saddam Hussein that he must begin cooperating with the United 
Nations, the Reuters news agency reported. She said Chirac and Yeltsin discussed 
the Iraqi crisis during a 30-minute phone conversation Monday night.	VERB
"France and Russia continue to favor a diplomatic solution to resolve the crisis 
and obtain Iraq's full respect for Security Council resolutions," said the 
spokeswoman, who was not identified. "The French and the Russians are continuing 
their cooperation with other Security Council members to assure unanimity in the 
firmness of their approach to Iraq."	VERB
Marc Grossman, U.S. assistant secretary of state for European and Canadian 
affairs, who was in Ankara today for talks with Turkish government and military 
leaders, voiced doubt that any of the diplomatic initiatives could successfully 
end the crisis. "Whether they be Turkish, French or Russian, if [the diplomatic 
initiatives] can produce a result, well, we would welcome that," he said. "But I 
must say that we are skeptical, given the past Iraqi behavior."	VERB
Nonetheless, Turkish Foreign Minister Ismail Cem announced he will travel to 
Iraq later this week. "We don't want our children to be threatened by weapons of 
mass destruction," he told reporters. "But we don't want a war either."	VERB
U.S. Air Force Gen. Joseph Ralston, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
and a member of the visiting U.S. delegation in Ankara, said the United States 
has not formally asked Turkey for use of its southern Incirlik air base for a 
possible bombing campaign against Iraq. "No decisions have been made on the use 
of force," Ralston told reporters, "and as a result, we have made no new 
requests to the Turkish military." But Turkish Defense Minister Ismet Sezgin 
held open the possibility that Turkey would give its permission. "We have not 
received any such request up until now. If a request came then we would evaluate 
it," he said at a news conference.	VERB
Egyptian state television reported that Iraqi Foreign Minister Mohammed Saeed 
Sahhaf will visit Cairo in the next two days for talks. Egyptian President Hosni 
Mubarak, who is to meet with Albright in Cairo on Tuesday, discussed the crisis 
with 13 Arab leaders, the TV report said.	PREV
Faced with rising tensions in the Persian Gulf, Israel today deployed four 
batteries of U.S. Patriot missiles on a hill in its southern Negev desert. The 
missiles were installed above the city of Arad, about 27 miles from an Israeli 
nuclear reactor that was the apparent target of some of the 39 Scud missiles 
that Iraq fired at the Jewish state in the 1991 Gulf War.	PREV
The Israeli army, which first refused to comment on the deployment, later called 
it a routine training drill.	VERB
Russia repeatedly has opposed threats made by the United States and backed by 
Britain to bomb Iraq if Saddam Hussein does not grant U.N. inspectors unhindered 
access to sites they suspect are used for storage and development of nuclear, 
chemical or biological weapons or missiles capable of delivering them.	PREV
"An evident shift in Iraq's position was achieved due to Russian diplomacy," 
said Sergei Yastrzhembsky, Yeltsin's spokesman, before Iraq issued its denial. 
"Diplomatic efforts to settle the situation have not been exhausted."	VERB
According to Tass and the Interfax news agency, Saddam had agreed to permit 
inspectors access to the eight sites, all of which are presidential compounds, 
so long as the team included technicians from of each of the five permanent 
member states of the U.N. Security Council -- the United States, Russia, China, 
Britain and France. The inspections would also have to take place in the company 
of diplomats from each of the five. In effect, the plan would suggest that the 
inspectors represent not the United Nations, but their countries of origin.	CIRC
The Iraqi leader put a further condition on the visits: Although the inspectors 
would be permitted to visit the buildings, they could not inspect the territory 
surrounding them, according to an account issued by Interfax. That would fall 
short of the U.S. and British insistence that the inspectors have unlimited 
access.	CIRC
As Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright continued her mission seeking the
support of Persian Gulf states for possible airstrikes against Iraq, Russia,
France and Turkey today intensified separate diplomatic initiatives aimed at
averting military action.	LEAD
Russian officials claimed a breakthrough in their talks with Iraq, saying Iraqi
President Saddam Hussein had given qualified permission for U.N. representatives
to visit eight presidential sites that were previously off-limits to the U.N.
weapons inspection teams.	MAIN
Iraq, however, dismissed the Russian report as "totally, totally incorrect."
Iraq's undersecretary for foreign affairs, Riyadh Qaysi, told a news conference
that "no such thing was discussed" by Saddam Hussein and Russian Deputy Foreign
Minister Viktor Posuvalyuk in talks in Baghdad tonight.	VERB
Qaysi added: "Discussion with Mr. Posuvalyuk is still going on to find a
diplomatic and political solution to the crisis. I am not going to provide you
with even a shade . . . of what is being discussed. Discussions are going on,
and this is a good thing."	VERB
Officials at the Kremlin and Russian Foreign Ministry, who earlier were hailing
the offer as a triumph for Russian diplomacy, stopped answering telephone calls
after word of Iraq's denial of a deal reached Moscow.	CONS
Senior Clinton administration officials reacted coldly to the Russian plan. "I
don't think it's an appropriate solution at this time," Secretary of Defense
William S. Cohen said at the Pentagon.	VERB
Asked about the Russian proposal following her talks with Saudi Crown Prince
Abdullah in Riyadh, Albright said: "Having kind of piecemeal inspections, that
does not strike me as meeting the basic standards that we have been talking
about for so long."	VERB
President Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin discussed Iraq during a
20-minute phone conversation today. A White House official said Clinton stressed
to Yeltsin "the need for unity" among U.N. Security Council members in seeking
to force Iraq to accept full access by U.N. weapons inspection teams.	VERB
"The president agreed with Yeltsin on the desirability of a diplomatic solution"
to the standoff, the official said. "But Clinton said that Saddam Hussein's
continued defiance of the inspection teams is unacceptable."	VERB
A French envoy reportedly was to set out for Baghdad from the Jordanian capital,
Amman, on Tuesday. French President Jacques Chirac dispatched top Foreign
Ministry official Bertrand Dufourcq to Iraq as part of an apparent French gambit
to reach a diplomatic settlement.	MAIN
A French presidential spokeswoman said Dufourcq was carrying a "very firm"
message to Saddam Hussein that he must begin cooperating with the United
Nations, the Reuters news agency reported. She said Chirac and Yeltsin discussed
the Iraqi crisis during a 30-minute phone conversation Monday night.	VERB
"France and Russia continue to favor a diplomatic solution to resolve the crisis
and obtain Iraq's full respect for Security Council resolutions," said the
spokeswoman, who was not identified. "The French and the Russians are continuing
their cooperation with other Security Council members to assure unanimity in the
firmness of their approach to Iraq."	VERB
Marc Grossman, U.S. assistant secretary of state for European and Canadian
affairs, who was in Ankara today for talks with Turkish government and military
leaders, voiced doubt that any of the diplomatic initiatives could successfully
end the crisis. "Whether they be Turkish, French or Russian, if [the diplomatic
initiatives] can produce a result, well, we would welcome that," he said. "But I
must say that we are skeptical, given the past Iraqi behavior."	VERB
Nonetheless, Turkish Foreign Minister Ismail Cem announced he will travel to
Iraq later this week. "We don't want our children to be threatened by weapons of
mass destruction," he told reporters. "But we don't want a war either."	VERB
U.S. Air Force Gen. Joseph Ralston, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
and a member of the visiting U.S. delegation in Ankara, said the United States
has not formally asked Turkey for use of its southern Incirlik air base for a
possible bombing campaign against Iraq. "No decisions have been made on the use
of force," Ralston told reporters, "and as a result, we have made no new
requests to the Turkish military." But Turkish Defense Minister Ismet Sezgin
held open the possibility that Turkey would give its permission. "We have not
received any such request up until now. If a request came then we would evaluate
it," he said at a news conference.	VERB
Egyptian state television reported that Iraqi Foreign Minister Mohammed Saeed
Sahhaf will visit Cairo in the next two days for talks. Egyptian President Hosni
Mubarak, who is to meet with Albright in Cairo on Tuesday, discussed the crisis
with 13 Arab leaders, the TV report said.	CONS
Faced with rising tensions in the Persian Gulf, Israel today deployed four
batteries of U.S. Patriot missiles on a hill in its southern Negev desert. The
missiles were installed above the city of Arad, about 27 miles from an Israeli
nuclear reactor that was the apparent target of some of the 39 Scud missiles
that Iraq fired at the Jewish state in the 1991 Gulf War.	PREV
The Israeli army, which first refused to comment on the deployment, later called
it a routine training drill.	VERB
Russia repeatedly has opposed threats made by the United States and backed by
Britain to bomb Iraq if Saddam Hussein does not grant U.N. inspectors unhindered
access to sites they suspect are used for storage and development of nuclear,
chemical or biological weapons or missiles capable of delivering them.	CIRC
"An evident shift in Iraq's position was achieved due to Russian diplomacy,"
said Sergei Yastrzhembsky, Yeltsin's spokesman, before Iraq issued its denial.
"Diplomatic efforts to settle the situation have not been exhausted."	VERB
According to Tass and the Interfax news agency, Saddam had agreed to permit
inspectors access to the eight sites, all of which are presidential compounds,
so long as the team included technicians from of each of the five permanent
member states of the U.N. Security Council -- the United States, Russia, China,
Britain and France. The inspections would also have to take place in the company
of diplomats from each of the five. In effect, the plan would suggest that the
inspectors represent not the United Nations, but their countries of origin.	CIRC
The Iraqi leader put a further condition on the visits: Although the inspectors
would be permitted to visit the buildings, they could not inspect the territory
surrounding them, according to an account issued by Interfax. That would fall
short of the U.S. and British insistence that the inspectors have unlimited
access.	CIRC

National Public Radio President Delano Lewis last week violated the adage that
there are some things even your best friends won't tell you.	LEAD
Lewis told his longtime friend Robert Johnson, founder of Washington's Black
Entertainment Television Network, that Johnson's offer to buy out the public
stockholders of BET Holdings Inc. for $ 48 a share isn't good enough.	MAIN
The pronouncement surprised investors who had complained that as a hand-picked
member of BET's board, Lewis was likely to rubber stamp the $ 288 million buyout
bid made by Johnson and his partners at Liberty Media Group, a subsidiary of the
cable television giant Tele-Communications Inc..	VERB
But it was a pleasant surprise for the investors who have complained in a
shareholders' lawsuit that Johnson's $ 48 offer in November was a low-ball bid
for stock that could be worth twice that much.	VERB
Because of Lewis's rejection, the betting is that stockholders will get a better
offer, probably soon.	EXPE
Lewis was put on the spot last fall when Johnson appointed him a committee of
one to evaluate the offer on behalf of BET's board of directors.	PREV
For example, BET's board includes Johnson's wife, Sheila; actor Denzel
Washington; TCI President John Malone; and Liberty President Robert Bennett, as
well as others with ties to the founder.	CIRC
Like board members of most companies created by entrepreneurs, BET's directors
are not people prone to playing hardball with the chief executive.	EVAL
Since Johnson
controls two-thirds of the votes of BET's three classes of stock, he picks most
of the directors.	CIRC
Lewis, a former president of Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Cos., is the closest
thing the BET board has to an independent, professional outside director. He
also is on the boards of Colgate-Palmolive Co., Guest Services Inc. and
Halliburton Co.	CIRC
Asking for an "independent evaluation" or a "fairness opinion" is standard
procedure when insiders of a company make an offer to buy out the public
shareholders. Cynicism is the standard reaction to those "independent
evaluations." Investment bankers in the past have given their stamp of approval
to many buyouts that were later declared by judges to be unfair to the
stockholders.	EVAL
Whether the decision to reject the BET offer reinforced that cynicism or proved
that board members really can be independent depends on how you look at it.	EVAL
One view is that not even Bob Johnson's best friend could have held his nose and
proclaimed that $ 48 is a fair price for BET stock. Giving Lewis full credit for
his professionalism and independence, it didn't take an investment banker to
suspect the price was too low, even though it was $ 10 a share more than the
stock was selling for at the time.	EVAL
Investors certainly thought so. As soon as the offer was made in September, the
stock jumped to more than $ 50 from about $ 40 a share, then moved up a few
dollars a share. Rejection of the Johnson buyout offer pushed the shares to an
all-time high of $ 55.12 1/2 on Friday.	CONS
Another view is that Lewis was guaranteed to get sued if he went along with the
$ 48-a-share offer. A favorable fairness opinion simply would have added Lewis
and the investment bankers at Goldman Sachs & Co. to the list of defendants in
the shareholders lawsuit, which was filed by a New York attorney who specializes
in such cases.	EXPE
Goldman Sachs was hired by Lewis to crunch the numbers and calculate whether
Johnson and TCI were offering a fair price. Their conclusion was a terse
pronouncement that $ 48 "is not adequate."	CIRC
Lewis was out of town last week and referred inquiries to Arthur Bill of
Washington's Freedman, Levy, Kroll and Simonds, who is counsel to the Lewis
committee.	CONS
The decision doesn't mean the buyout is off, Bill said. "Discussions are ongoing
between the special committee and the buyers' group," he said. He wouldn't say
whether Goldman Sachs had placed a value on the stock.	VERB
"All I can say is that Goldman and Salomon Brothers [the investment bankers for
Johnson and TCI] are going to be engaging in discussions of whether the
principals can reach an understanding."	VERB
BET's official position is "no comment," said Media Relations Director Michele
Moore.	VERB
It's typical for players in these games to hold their cards close to the vest.	EVAL
One investor who is betting on Johnson to raise his bid is Mario Gabelli, the
New York money manager who is the biggest outside shareholder in BET. A report
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission last Thursday reveals Gabelli
has been methodically buying up BET stock recently. As of Jan. 23 he controlled
1.74 million shares, or 17.3 percent of BET's Class A stock -- the only kind
owned by the public.	CIRC
"The ball's now in Bob Johnson and Bob Bennett's court," Gabelli said last week.
"It's up to them to up it or walk away."	VERB
Gabelli's SEC reports show companies he controls own BET stock for clients, and
they've continued to buy as the stock price has soared well beyond the $ 48
offer on the table.	CIRC
Clearly, he thinks any new offer would have to be higher than that. "Forty-eight
was too low. Everybody knows that. I'd pay $ 55," added Gabelli, who said his
calculations value BET at between $ 58 and $ 72 a share.	VERB
Gabelli says that besides a better offer from BET insiders, there are a couple
of other possibilities.	VERB
One would be that Goldman and Salomon Bros. can't agree on a price, so Johnson
puts the offer on hold. "In which case," Gabelli said, "my clients are not
unhappy" because they like owning the stock.	VERB
Or "they come in with a price that is below what I call fair, then I can either
accept it or go for appraisal rights." Legally, minority shareholders who object
to a buyout can demand an independent appraisal of the stock, which both sides
must then accept.	VERB
Gabelli says he's not trying to hold the proverbial gun to Johnson's head.
Quoting one of the aphorisms that has made him a favorite of financial
television shows, "Bulls make money. Bears make money. Pigs get slaughtered."	VERB
While Gabelli insists the stock is worth more than Johnson offered, he is not a
party to the shareholder suit.	CIRC
"The shareholder lawsuit is a scam," he said. "These lawyers are ambulance
chasers. It's like a Madonna concert, they're rushing to get on queue first" so
they can collect legal fees by persuading the defendants to settle the case
quickly.	VERB
Some shareholder lawsuits challenging takeovers have merit, he added, "but some
are filed by pilgrims. You know what pilgrims are? Early settlers."	VERB
Since Johnson made his offer to buy out public shareholders, Gabelli has bought
an additional 200,000 shares of stock, according to his latest SEC filings. The
stock, held by half a dozen entities he controls, is worth about $ 83.5 million
at the $ 48-a-share price on the table. Kick the offer up to, say, $ 55 a share,
and he'd get more than $ 95 million.	CIRC
That price would raise the total cost of the buyback from $ 288 million to $ 330
million, which Johnson and his partners ought to be able to afford. BET has only
$ 62 million in debt and generated $ 33 million in cash flow last year, more
than enough to cover the interest on $ 330 million at today's rates.	CONS
Johnson owns 20.9 percent of the stock, TCI holds 18.2 percent and 6.6 percent
is under control of Capital Group Cos., a Los Angeles investment firm.	CIRC
Besides the common stock, which was sold to the public for $ 17 a share in 1991,
BET has two other classes of stock that are owned exclusively by insiders. The
Class B stock is entirely owned by TCI and the Class C stock is all Johnson's.	CIRC
Those two stocks have 10 voters per share, compared with one vote a share of the
common. As a practical matter, the public shareholders have no real voice in how
BET is run and not much leverage in buyout negotiations.	CIRC
That powerless position is all too familiar for Washington investors. Dozens of
corporations in the region are dominated by the entrepreneurs who started the
company and then sold a minority interest to the public. Horror stories abound,
lead by the laments of shareholders held hostage by the Haft family's previous
domination of Dart Group Inc., the Landover-based holding company for Crown
Books and Trak Auto.	EVAL
Given all the abuses that shareholders in those and other companies have
suffered at the hands of insiders, BET's stockholders now appear to have a good
shot at getting a fair shake from Bob Johnson and John Malone.	EXPE
They'll need to thank Del Lewis for that. How grateful they'll be depends on
Johnson's next offer.	EXPE

Maryland Federal Bancorp Inc., a Hyattsville-based thrift, announced yesterday
that it will be acquired by BB&T Corp. of Winston-Salem, N.C., for $ 265.3
million in stock.	MAIN
The purchase will more than double BB&T's presence in the Washington area,
furthering a push into the region that began last year with the company's
announcement that it would buy Franklin Bancorp Inc., a small D.C. bank.	CONS
BB&T, with about $ 30 billion in assets the nation's 31st-largest banking
company, joins several other major banks that have been gobbling up smaller
locally based institutions to create or expand their presence in the Washington
region.	CIRC
Analysts praised the deal as a smart way for BB&T to establish itself here,
saying the combination would benefit shareholders.	VERB
"They have an excellent track record of enhancing the profitability of the
acquired bank by offering customers a wider array of products and services, as
well as turning it into a more sales-oriented business," said analyst Ed
Najarian of Wheat First Union in Richmond.	VERB
John Allison, BB&T's chairman, said in a statement that the acquisition will
"strengthen our position in one of the fastest-growing markets in the nation and
establish us in a state that ranks fifth nationally in median household and
personal income per capita."	VERB
Officials at BB&T and Maryland Federal, however, said the new out-of-town owner
won't mean the loss of that hometown feel. "BB&T believes in . . . providing the
highest level of personal service possible," Robert Halleck, Maryland Federal
president and chief executive, said in a statement. Halleck will become
president of the new Maryland region.	VERB
Officials said there are no plans to close any of Maryland Federal's 28
branches. They said layoffs, if any, will be minimal.	CONS
Maryland Federal, with
about 225 employees and $ 1.2 billion in assets, is one of the few remaining
sizable thrifts in Maryland. It has offices in 24 cities in Prince George's,
Montgomery, Anne Arundel and Calvert counties. BB&T, with about 10,500
employees, has 506 offices in the Carolinas and Virginia.	CIRC
Yesterday's deal values Maryland Federal at $ 37.05 a share, a 17 percent
premium over Tuesday's $ 31.75 closing price. Based on BB&T's Tuesday closing
price of $ 62 a share, the exchange ratio will be .5975 of a share of BB&T
common stock for each share of Maryland Federal common stock.	CONS
BB&T's stock dropped 5/16 to close at $ 61-11/16 on the New York Stock Exchange,
while Maryland Federal's stock closed at $ 35.75, up $ 4, on the Nasdaq Stock
Market.	CONS
The boards of both companies have approved the acquisition. But Maryland Federal
shareholders and federal and state banking regulators also must endorse the
deal. The companies expect the acquisition to be completed in the third quarter.	EXPE
In December, BB&T said it would pay $ 165.1 million in stock for Franklin
Bancorp, a Washington-based bank with $ 535 million in assets and nine branches.
BB&T also recently agreed to buy Life Bancorp of Norfolk for $ 359.2 million in
stock.	CIRC
After the acquisitions, BB&T will have about $ 5 billion in assets in
Virginia and the D.C. area.	CONS

Computer Sciences Corp. sued Computer Associates International Inc. yesterday,
alleging that its top two executives illegally offered Computer Sciences' chief
executive millions of dollars to support a merger offer that CSC decided to
reject.	MAIN
The lawsuit, filed in Los Angeles County Superior Court as part of CSC's
counteroffensive against Computer Associates' $ 9.8 billion hostile takeover
bid, alleged that Computer Associates' CEO, Charles B. Wang, and its president,
Sanjay Kumar, offered to pay Van B. Honeycutt, Computer Sciences' CEO, more than
$ 50 million to support the offer.	MAIN
CSC also alleged that the two executives promised Honeycutt he would receive
guaranteed stock options worth at least $ 35 million and a guaranteed seven-year
contract with an annual base income of at least $ 2.5 million.	MAIN
But Computer Sciences' suit characterized the alleged offer by the Computer
Associates' executives as part of an "unfair, unlawful and fraudulent scheme . .
. to acquire CSC at less than its value by employing wrongful and illegal
means."	CIRC
A Computer Associates International spokesman said the company could not comment
because it had not seen a copy of the lawsuit.	VERB
Court papers filed by Computer Sciences detailed a Dec. 18, 1997, visit by Wang
and Kumar to CSC's El Segundo, Calif., headquarters to meet with Honeycutt.	CIRC
Discussions about potential executive compensation are typical in merger
negotiations.	EVAL
Indeed, Computer Sciences' board, as part of its takeover defense,
has voted multimillion-dollar "golden parachute" payments to Honeycutt and 16
other top executives should CAI win the battle.	CIRC
At the meeting, according to CSC's lawsuit, they told Honeycutt, "wouldn't it be
great if we were partners," but Honeycutt responded that CSC was not for sale.
After some additional discussion, the suit alleged, Wang asked Honeycutt if he
and Kumar could speak privately for five minutes, and Honeycutt left the room.	CIRC
When he returned, the suit alleges, Wang made the offer of a $ 50 million
payment as well as the stock options and seven-year contract.	CIRC
"The conduct of defendants was an intentional, unlawful and corrupt attempt to
buy Honeycutt's support of a transaction that only benefited CAI at the expense
of CSC and its shareholders," the suit alleges. It said the executives' conduct
violates California laws on commercial bribery.	VERB
Computer Sciences asked the court to prohibit Computer Associates from
proceeding with its proposal to acquire CSC, and from communicating with CSC's
customers and employees about any proposed deal.	CONS
The California company also asked that CAI be ordered to pay restitution to CSC
"in an amount to be determined at trial."	CONS
Computer Sciences, which employs 7,300 people at its federal systems division in
Falls Church, named Wang, Kumar and Computer Associates as defendants in the
suit.	CIRC
Last week, Islandia, N.Y.-based Computer Associates offered to pay $ 108 a share
for CSC's 85 million shares outstanding, and to assume about $ 700 million in
Computer Sciences debt.	CIRC
CSC sharply rejected the offer last Thursday, saying the deal would make "no
business sense."	CIRC
In a letter to Wang last week, Honeycutt said Computer Sciences had "moved to
strengthen our protections against your ill-considered and unwelcome attempt to
force an acquisition" and that the company would "utilize every legal means
necessary to defeat your attempt."	VERB
Yesterday's action was part of what analysts predict will be a drawn-out
takeover battle filled with legal maneuvering.	EXPE
"Computer Sciences is usually prone to diplomacy, but that's certainly not the
case here," said Bob Dornan, senior vice president of Federal Sources, a
McLean-based consulting firm. "If they go down, they're going to go down in a
blaze of guns."	VERB

Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright today urged Russia and four other
European nations to step up punitive sanctions against Yugoslav President
Slobodan Milosevic until he shows greater cooperation in defusing the conflict
in the Serbian province of Kosovo.	MAIN
But as she arrived here to prepare for a meeting in Bonn Wednesday to discuss
what to do about Kosovo, Albright appeared to be waging a lonely campaign to
persuade others in the six-nation Balkans "contact group" to sustain a tough
attitude toward the Yugoslav government.	EVAL
Only Britain shares the U.S. view that Milosevic, whose rump nation consists of
Serbia and Montenegro, is more likely to respond to sticks than carrots in
meeting demands that he withdraw special police units from Kosovo and make a
serious effort to restore political autonomy to the 2 million Albanians who make
up 90 percent of Kosovo's population.	CIRC
Russia, France, Italy and Germany have expressed varying degrees of satisfaction
with Milosevic's behavior since the contact group agreed to a series of
sanctions against Yugoslavia at a meeting in London two weeks ago.	CIRC
At that meeting, the group agreed to consider a comprehensive arms embargo
against Serbia, Yugoslavia's dominant republic, a halt to supplying equipment
that could be used for repression, a denial of visas to Yugoslav officials
involved in the crackdown and an end to export credits to Belgrade for trade and
investment.	PREV
The contact group last met March 9 in the aftermath of a brutal crackdown on
ethnic Albanians that followed a series of attacks by separatist guerrillas
against Serbian police in Kosovo. At least 80 people, many of them women and
children, were killed by Serbian police and paramilitary forces in the
crackdown.	PREV
Russia, a long-standing ally of the Serbs and their main supplier of weapons,
has spurned compliance with the comprehensive arms embargo and balked at further
sanctions against Yugoslavia.	CIRC
Albright held discussions here this evening with
Russian Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov	CONS
but there was no sign that Moscow was
moving closer toward Washington's views.	EVAL
The violence has subsided since then, although the province remains tense,
especially in strongholds of the Kosovo Liberation Army, an Albanian separatist
guerrilla group.	CIRC
On Monday, Serbian and ethnic Albanian leaders signed an agreement that would
allow Albanian high school and university students to return to state
classrooms, seven years after Serbian authorities banned their Albanian-language
curriculum.	CIRC
During a six-hour stopover in Rome to consult with Italian Foreign Minister
Lamberto Dini and Vatican officials, Albright said Serbia's response had not
been sufficient to ease international pressure. She called on the rest of the
contact group to maintain sanctions until Yugoslavia complies fully with its
demands.	MAIN
"We have seen too many diplomatic efforts fail to believe that President
Milosevic will respond to positive pressure alone. And if we give him even a
shadow of a glimmer of a hint that he has done enough, he will assuredly do no
more," she said.	MAIN
She insisted that Milosevic has stopped far short of doing what is necessary.
"Serbian security police are digging in, not pulling out; Milosevic has still
not committed himself to unconditional dialogue; aid workers continue to be
harassed, and the list goes on."	MAIN
In contrast, Dini praised Milosevic for taking some steps in the right direction
and said there was no reason for the group to be "entirely dissatisfied" with
Yugoslavia's behavior over the past two weeks. During a visit to Belgrade last
week, foreign ministers Klaus Kinkel of Germany and Hubert Vedrine of France
told Milosevic they welcomed "significant progress" he showed toward meeting the
group's demands.	VERB
U.S. officials said they wanted to "prevent backsliding" toward Yugoslavia.
"This is not the time to reverse course," a senior administration official said.
"What we want is to be leading the group to understand that without pressure he
[Milosevic] will not respond."	VERB
To show U.S. displeasure with Belgrade, Albright said she will sign an order
barring 16 Yugoslav officials involved in the Kosovo crackdown from entering the
United States. "We have too much experience in the former Yugoslavia to settle
for half-sincere half measures," she said. "We will need to maintain credible
pressure on Belgrade to end repression and restore autonomy" in Kosovo.	CONS
But European allies predict that Milosevic will respond to encouraging gestures
by taking further steps toward peace. Some European companies want to see
sanctions lifted so they can take advantage of early investments in Yugoslavia's
privatization plans, which they believe offer the prospect of easy profits.	CONS

Washington Mutual Inc., the nation's largest thrift, agreed yesterday to buy 
rival H.F. Ahmanson & Co. for $ 9.9 billion, creating a financial services 
behemoth that would compete with some of the largest banks in the country.	LEAD
The combination of Seattle-based Washington Mutual and Ahmanson, the holding 
company for Home Savings of America, would form the nation's seventh-largest 
consumer bank, with 6 million customers and about 2,000 branches stretching from 
Texas to California, as well as in Florida. Ahmanson, of Irwindale, Calif., is 
the second-largest thrift in the country.	CONS
While the sale passed the boards of both companies, it still must be approved by 
regulators.	CIRC
Analysts said other thrifts may follow Washington Mutual's lead, with the strong 
economy and a healthy industry leading to more consolidation.	VERB
Industry experts generally applauded the acquisition, saying it would help 
Washington Mutual better compete with large banks such as BankAmerica Corp. and 
Wells Fargo & Co., which it will surpass in size with assets of nearly $ 150 
billion. In recent years, thrifts have begun offering an array of financial 
products, including insurance, mutual funds and brokerage services to compete 
with banks.	VERB
"It's a great acquisition for both Washington Mutual and Ahmanson shareholders," 
said Martin Friedman, a senior thrift analyst with the investment bank Friedman, 
Billings & Ramsey in Arlington. "It creates a powerful consumer franchise in 
California that will be able to compete effectively against the big banks."	VERB
The deal brings together companies that were bitter rivals last year in their 
attempts to take over Great Western Financial Corp., the nation's third-largest 
thrift. It was eventually acquired by Washington Mutual after Ahmanson made a 
hostile offer for the California thrift.	PREV
The purchase is the latest transaction in a rapidly consolidating industry, 
which after being battered by the real estate debacle of the 1980s has made a 
comeback in recent years.	EVAL
Last year, the thrift industry earned a record $ 6.5 billion, up nearly 40 
percent from the previous year while the number of problem institutions fell 
sharply to 18 from 29. In 1990, more than 300 thrifts were listed as troubled.	PREV
"We have much healthier and cleaner institutions now," said Ella Allen, 
spokesman for the Office of Thrift Supervision, the federal agency that oversees 
the industry.	VERB
Thrifts take deposits and make loans to consumers and small businesses, 
primarily through mortgages. Unlike banks, thrifts do not make large commercial 
loans.	CIRC
Both companies' stocks were heavily traded yesterday. On the Nasdaq Stock 
Market, shares of Washington Mutual closed at a record high of $ 72.93 3/4, up 
1.18 3/4 while Ahmanson shares surged $ 12.37 1/2 to close at $ 77.87 1/2.	CONS
The purchase price, about 19 times earnings, was in line with what other thrifts 
have paid in acquisitions in recent months but slightly less than banks, which 
have been fetching 20 to 25 times earnings.	EVAL
"The combination of our two companies will create a West Coast-based financial 
institution competitive with the nation's largest banking companies," Charles R. 
Rinehart, Ahmanson's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.	VERB
Washington Mutual officials said the acquisition will help the company 
consolidate operations and cut annual costs by $ 330 million. It expects to take 
a one-time, $ 254 million charge as part of its plan to slash 3,000 to 3,500 
jobs and close 160 to 170 branches.	VERB
Neither company has employees or offices in the Washington, D.C., area.	CIRC

Comsat Corp. said yesterday that it has a buyer for its RSI satellite equipment
manufacturing division, nearly one year after putting it up for sale.	LEAD
The Bethesda-based satellite communications company said that TBG Industries
Inc., a privately owned New York holding company, would buy RSI for $ 116.5
million.	MAIN
RSI, based in Sterling, designs, manufactures, installs and operates
ground-based satellite antenna systems, air-traffic control radar, radio
astronomy antennas and other communications systems for military and commercial
use.	HIST
The sale reduces Comsat's payroll almost by half: RSI employs 1,200 of Comsat's
2,600 workers. TBG officials did not return calls seeking comment, but a Comsat
spokeswoman said she did not expect layoffs at RSI.	CONS
Comsat bought RSI for $ 150 million in stock in February 1994, when it was
called Radiation Systems Inc. RSI had $ 10 million in annual profit, $ 120
million in sales and had just won an $ 18 million contract to furnish three
satellite systems to Kuwait.	PREV
Bruce Crockett, Comsat's chairman at the time, predicted the unit would have
sales of $ 400 million to $ 500 million by 1997.	VERB
But RSI fell far short of those goals. Comsat declined to release specific
figures but said that RSI in 1997 accounted for "the majority" of $ 300 million
in revenue from its technology services unit, which includes Comsat's
laboratories.	CIRC
Crockett's replacement as president and chief executive, Betty Alewine, put RSI
up for sale last March as part of her strategy to focus on Comsat's core
business of providing satellite communications services. In June, Comsat
declared RSI a discontinued operation, and the company took a $ 60 million
write-off last year.	PREV
"It's good to get this non-core, difficult operation out of the way," said
George Reed Dellinger, a telecommunications analyst for HSBC Washington
Analysis. "Unfortunately, this probably was not a good fit" with Comsat.	VERB
The sale price is subject to adjustment based on loans and advances between
Comsat Corp. and RSI at the time the deal closes, Comsat officials said. Comsat
will use sale proceeds to pay off short-term debt.	VERB
Comsat agreed to keep two divisions of RSI, called Electromechanical Systems
Inc. and Plexsys International Corp. Comsat also will keep a long-term
construction contract for a radio telescope in Green Bank, W. Va.	CONS
The company in late February sold another RSI subsidiary, JEFA Wireless Systems,
to Able Telecom Holding Corp. for an undisclosed amount.	PREV
Comsat shares closed yesterday at $ 34.75, up 31 1/4 cents.	CONS
The sale marks the last major piece of Alewine's plan to divest Comsat of
extraneous businesses. The company last year spun off its 80 percent ownership
stake in Ascent Entertainment Group, which owns a film studio and two
professional sports teams in Denver.	PREV
The company now focuses on providing satellite services to customers as the
largest owner and user of the Intelsat and Inmarsat satellite consortia, and on
building digital communications networks -- using land- and space-based
equipment -- for businesses overseas.	CIRC
Comsat's next challenge is to fend off legislation pending in Congress that
calls for a quicker and more extensive privatization of Intelsat than the treaty
organization is on the verge of approving.	EVAL
Comsat calls the legislation punitive
because if the congressional schedule is not met it would allow Comsat's U.S.
customers to have direct access to Intelsat services and could restrict Comsat
from providing some new services it already offers, including Internet access.	VERB

Nolanda S. Hill, the onetime business partner of the late Commerce Secretary
Ronald H. Brown, was indicted yesterday by a federal grand jury on charges that
she diverted more than $ 200,000 from companies she controlled to buy clothes
and jewelry for herself and failed to report it as income on her tax returns.	MAIN
Hill, 53, a Dallas broadcasting entrepreneur who owned WFTY-TV (Channel 50) in
Washington and another station in Massachusetts, also was charged with diverting
more than $ 557,000 from one of her companies to her partner. Although Brown was
not named in the indictment, he was her partner in that company, First
International Communications Corp., which failed to put together any successful
business ventures during its existence.	MAIN
The nine-count indictment also charged Kenneth C. White, 49, a Maryland resident
and former executive of one of her companies.	MAIN
The case results from an
investigation by the Justice Department that was begun by former independent
counsel Daniel S. Pearson.	CIRC
The Justice Department took over the probe after
Brown died in a plane crash in Croatia in 1996 and Pearson closed his office.	PREV
The charges against Hill and White include conspiracy to defraud the Internal
Revenue Service, conspiracy to defraud the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
making false statements and aiding and assisting in the preparation of false tax
returns.	MAIN
One of Hill's attorneys, Courtney Simmons Elwood, said yesterday that Hill is
"innocent" and "deeply regrets that the government's investigation [of Brown]
has ended with unfounded charges against his former business associates."	VERB
Before his death, Brown repeatedly denied wrongdoing. His attorney, Reid H.
Weingarten, said yesterday that the grand jury not only did not name Brown, but
did not charge that he was "a knowing participant in wrongdoing."	VERB
The grand jury said that Hill spent thousands of dollars on trips to tropical
climates, and on jewelry and designer clothes at expensive stores and boutiques
from Beverly Hills to Boston. She shopped at such high-priced stores as Gucci at
the Watergate, Jean Claude Jitrois of Beverly Hills, and Escada Boutique in Palm
Beach.	MAIN
During the time of the alleged illegal activities, Hill was president of
Corridor Broadcasting Corp., a Texas company that owned Channel 50 and WHLL-TV
in the Boston area.	CIRC
The grand jury said that during the mid-1980s, Corridor borrowed $ 21 million
from Sunbelt Savings & Loan in Texas. Corridor did not make payments on the
loan, which the FDIC took over as creditor after Sunbelt failed.	MAIN
In meetings with FDIC officials, Hill and White allegedly lied about Corridor's
financial condition and supplied the agency with doctored books and records that
hid numerous diversions of funds.	CIRC
According to the indictment, Hill siphoned off nearly $ 200,000 from Corridor
and another $ 37,000 from another company to cover her shopping binges. She
allegedly spent that money at the same time she collected a generous annual
salary that ranged from $ 170,000 to nearly $ 260,000 from 1990 to 1994.	MAIN
At the same time, Hill formed First International Communications Corp. to pursue
possible foreign and domestic business ventures. Her partner in that company was
Brown, a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee.	CIRC
Hill, who sometimes shows up to business meetings wearing leather and driving a
Harley-Davidson motorcycle, often bragged about how her business ties to Brown
provided her with access to Washington's elite, according to friends and other
sources. She also credited Brown with getting her invited to the White House on
at least three occasions.	CIRC
The grand jury said that Hill and White diverted large sums of money from
Corridor and another company, Jasas Corp., "for the purpose of making payments
to and for the benefit of [Hill's] business partner" in First International and
her limited partner in yet another business venture, FICC Limited Partnership.
Brown was that partner.	MAIN
Pearson, the independent counsel, was appointed in 1995 to investigate how Brown
made nearly $ 500,000 by selling his interest in First International	CIRC
In exchange for selling his interest back to the firm, Brown received $ 135,000
in cash, forgiveness of a $ 72,000 debt he owed to another company owned by Hill
and an agreement that $ 300,000 in his personal debts would be paid off.	MAIN
Although again not naming Brown, the grand jury said Hill and White diverted
nearly $ 300,000 in company funds to Hill's personal attorney, who, in turn,
used the money to pay off Brown's debts.	MAIN
Hill allegedly used her companies' funds to pay off her debts as well. Her
shopping sprees rarely cost less than $ 1,000 and cost as much as $ 5,438, which
she spent in one day in 1993 at St. John Boutique in Dallas.	MAIN
She also spent thousands of dollars on airline tickets to the Bahamas, London
and Ecuador for herself, her family and friends, according to the grand jury.	MAIN
The indictment said Hill failed to reimburse her companies and should have
reported the funds she received as income on her tax returns for 1991, 1992 and
1993.	MAIN
While she spent the money, she allegedly lied to Sunbelt loan officials in 1989
about Corridors' operations by painting a "bleak financial picture," according
to the grand jury.	MAIN
Two years later, Hill and White allegedly told Sunbelt officials that Corridor
had a cash flow crisis and couldn't make payments on its loan. Hill also
allegedly lied when she said she was not drawing a salary and was paying
corporate legal fees out of her own pocket.	MAIN

The likely leadership of India's next government grew more uncertain today after
the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, which emerged from a midterm
election with the most seats in the new Parliament, lost support of its biggest
ally and fell further short of a parliamentary majority.	MAIN
The political dispute prompted President K.R. Narayanan, who is empowered to
appoint the prime minister, to announce he will explore the possibility of an
alternative coalition government that would merge the two other blocs in
Parliament.	CONS
Narayanan said he will continue talks with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) even
as he confers with leaders of the two other blocs -- the once-dominant Congress
party and the ruling United Front coalition.	CONS
The president is to meet Friday with Sitaram Kesri, outgoing president of the
Congress party, which controls the second-largest bloc of legislators. Narayanan
has appointments later in the day separately with former prime minister H.D.
Deve Gowda, representing the United Front, and two of the ruling coalition's
communist leaders.	CONS
The day's developments demonstrated how the close division of the new Parliament
makes it even more unstable than the last one, elected in 1996.	EVAL
 The old
Parliament threw together two governments led by the United Front, a coalition
of 13 parties whose reign was marked by indecision, infighting and policy drift.	CIRC
In this year's staggered voting, the BJP-led bloc -- with a dozen partners,
almost as many the United Front -- emerged as the top vote-getter with 252
seats. The biggest ally of the BJP was a regional party from the southern state
of Tamil Nadu with 18 seats.	MAIN
And that party, the All India Dravidian Progressive Federation, has thrown a big
obstacle into BJP plans to take power as soon as this weekend.	EVAL
J. Jayalalitha, the Dravidian party's leader, has declined to submit a formal
statement of support for a BJP-led government. So when Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the
BJP's choice to become prime minister, met Narayanan today, he carried written
commitments from 240 legislators -- 33 short of a majority in the 545-member
lower house of Parliament.	CONS
Had Vajpayee brought commitments from a majority of
the new Parliament's members, Narayanan presumably would have formally invited
the BJP to form a government.	EXPE
Jayalalitha, a former movie star whom her party's members call "Mother," did not
disclose why she was withholding support. But leaders of the BJP and her party
said the hangup was a rejection of her nominee as finance minister, Subramaniam
Swamy, a Harvard-trained mathematician.	VERB
Vajpayee, 71, last year indicated his discomfort with the BJP's alliance with
Jayalalitha, a former chief minister of Tamil Nadu who was jailed on corruption
charges after her state government was defeated in the 1996 election. Political
observers said Vajpayee was personally even more uncomfortable with Swamy, who
was once a BJP member.	VERB
Vajpayee told reporters that BJP leaders were still talking to Jayalalitha's
party, but he sounded firm in his stance, saying, "I don't feel any pressure,
nor will I bow to any pressure."	VERB
The impasse could prove to be a break for Congress and the United Front, which
have had their own problems sorting out a new alliance.	EXPE
Several partners of the
United Front have expressed reservations about backing a Congress-led
government, but if they combined forces, the two blocs would need about 10 more
supporters to control a majority in Parliament.
	CONS
So far Congress and the United Front have not engaged in serious discussions
about renewing their awkward alliance, under which two United Front governments
ruled with Congress's backing -- but not its membership in the coalition. They
had appeared content to watch whether the BJP could pull together a majority
and, if it could, to let the Hindu nationalist party grapple with the
difficulties of coalition politics, Indian-style.	CONS
Those troubles surfaced perhaps sooner than the BJP's opponents anticipated.
V.P. Singh, a former prime minister and driving force behind the United Front,
used matrimony and a deadly, illegal Indian custom as a metaphor for the
implications of the dispute between the BJP and Jayalalitha's party.	CIRC
"If before a marriage, all terms and conditions are not agreed upon," Singh told
reporters, "it will lead to bride-burning."	VERB

Indonesia's legislature appointed President Suharto, Asia's longest serving
leader, to a seventh five-year term today after granting him sweeping new powers
in the midst of the country's worst economic and political crisis in three
decades. Suharto was elected by the largely appointed 1,000-member People's
Consultative Assembly.	MAIN
The text of the "special powers" decree enacted by the assembly on Monday has
not been made public, but political analysts say it likely draws on a similar
measure, stemming from the upheavals of the 1960s, that was shelved a few years
ago.	MAIN
 Indonesia, the world's fourth-most-populous country, with 200 million
people, is suffering its worst turmoil since that turbulent period, and there
have been mounting calls for Suharto to step aside.
	CIRC
"There's no way you can have political reform while Suharto is still in power,"
said one young activist leader who has been among thousands of university
students demonstrating for political and economic reform in several cities since
the assembly meeting began ten days ago.	VERB
He said protests will continue after the assembly ends on Wednesday, when
Suharto is sworn in and the vice president is chosen.	VERB
Local newspapers reported
that six students were arrested on Sunday. Security forces have held back from
intervening, despite a government ban on demonstrations and large gatherings
during the election period.	CIRC
In Washington, the crisis got an extraordinarily bleak assessment from Michel
Camdessus, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, who voiced
fears that Indonesia could drag down neighboring countries that have begun
recovering from their own crises.	VERB
"Even if you have the impression that we have made important progress in
handling the Asian crisis, even if you are under the impression that Thailand
and Korea have turned the corner, we are not there by far in Indonesia,"
Camdessus told a luncheon during an IMF-sponsored seminar. "If this problem is
not solved soon, the whole thing is at risk."	VERB
Indonesia's newly appointed armed forces chief has signaled he will be tough on
protesters after demonstrations against high prices turned into riots in a
number of cities last month.	EXPE
"If people are hot-tempered and ready to cut down the symbols of the state, yes,
I will gladly prohibit them. If they are still determined, I will be determined.
The difference is they are breaking the law, I am protecting the law," Reuters
news agency quoted Gen. Wiranto as saying in Forum Keadilan magazine.	VERB
There has been speculation that the special-powers decree would allow Suharto to
take a harder line against his opponents in the name of preserving national
unity during the current turmoil. But reformers are skeptical.	EXPE
"I don't see the need of it because he has special powers already," said one
Indonesian political analyst, who, like many government opponents these days,
did not want to be identified.	VERB
Some analysts said the decree could allow the 76-year-old leader, who was ill
late last year, to override the constitution in naming a successor.	EXPE
Such a move
would provide fodder for those who criticize the government as feudalistic.	EVAL
After an outspoken and widely respected magazine last week ran a cover depicting
Suharto as the King of Spades, the government took legal action against its
editors.
	PREV
The president's children, who have wide-reaching and lucrative business
interests in Indonesia, have increasingly taken on the role of spokesmen for the
administration in the political vacuum leading up to the naming of a new
cabinet. The consultative assembly, which is largely appointed by Suharto,
includes his relatives, friends and military representatives.	CIRC
The political transition has been cited by officials from the IMF in explaining
why they decided to delay the latest payment of the IMF's $ 43-billion bailout
of Indonesia. Officials announced last week that the $ 3 billion slated to be
paid on March 15 will be held up at least until April.	CIRC
The IMF and Suharto have been locked in a standoff over the economic rescue
package, with the West demanding a quick implementation of reforms and Suharto
dancing around the measures he twice vowed he would carry out. He also has been
dangling the idea of pegging the Indonesian rupiah to the dollar -- a plan
inspired by American economist Steve H. Hanke that the IMF and Washington have
warned Jakarta against.	CIRC
Both IMF and Indonesian officials sought today to play down their sparring --
which has roiled Southeast Asian markets -- following comments Suharto was
quoted as making over the weekend that led some analysts to fear the president
had dug in his nationalist heels and decided to reject the bailout altogether.	CIRC
Jusuf Syakir, chairman of the Muslim-dominated United Development Party, emerged
from a meeting with Suharto on Sunday announcing that the president said the IMF
reforms were "not in line" with the constitution. Specifically, Syakir quoted
Suharto as saying, the reforms went against an article stipulating that the
economy should be organized "based upon the principle of the family system."	VERB
Few Indonesians, foreign businessmen or diplomats missed the irony in a
statement coming from a president whose family has amassed more than $ 16
billion over the past three decades and helped inspire the term "crony
capitalism."	VERB
Today Bambang Trihatmodjo, one of Suharto's tycoon children and a senior
assembly member, said the IMF agreement might have to be renegotiated, the
Associated Press reported.	VERB

When Zhu Rongji toured the United States in July 1990, many people called the
then-Shanghai mayor "China's Gorbachev," an appellation that annoyed him.	LEAD
"I'm not China's Gorbachev," he said. "I'm China's Zhu Rongji."	LEAD
Today there is little doubt that the blunt-spoken Zhu is an original. During the
annual session of the National People's Congress that starts Thursday, Zhu is
slated to become premier and expand his already considerable power.	MAIN
Since being handed the seemingly impossible task of managing China's chaotic
economy in early 1993, Zhu has moved to remake the arthritic Communist system
and bring it into the market-oriented modern age.	HIST
Moreover, he has done this while engineering a soft landing for the overheated
economy and dodging the financial crisis that has beset almost every other
country in Asia.	HIST
"He will go down in history as one of the great economic figures of the 20th
century," said Robert Hormats, a top executive at Goldman Sachs & Co., who has
met Zhu on several occasions. Hormats ranked Zhu with Ludwig Erhard, who
engineered most of Germany's postwar economic miracle.	VERB
Zhu "has a long-term strategic vision of where to go and how to get there," said
Nicholas Lardy, an economist at the Brookings Institution who has been a
frequent critic of China's banking system.	VERB
Zhu's ascent marks a victory for economic pragmatism and a further step away
from the ideologically driven days of the late Communist Party Chairman Mao
Zedong.	EVAL
"I'm very pragmatic and I'm very happy to have somebody very pragmatic become
premier of China," said Tianjin Vice Mayor Ye Disheng. "He's a very intelligent
guy and a great manager."	VERB
Zhu, once condemned as a "rightist," purged from the Communist Party and
banished to do menial rural labor, now is known as "boss Zhu." 	CIRC
Already the
number three person in the ruling Communist Party, he will become the top
official in the day-to-day government apparatus.	MAIN
Despite widespread admiration for his ability among those who know him, Zhu
remains largely unknown to most Chinese and is loathed by bureaucrats who have
been targets of his rebukes. Zhu once said he wanted to buy 100 bullets, use 99
on corrupt bureaucrats and save one for himself.	CIRC
In one meeting, an official showed off a fancy cigarette lighter. Zhu said the
man couldn't have afforded it on his salary and dismissed him on the spot. He
also summarily fired a senior provincial bank official whose performance didn't
meet his standard.	PREV
Later, he threatened to "chop off the heads" of regional bank officials who
defied his edicts.	PREV
"He knows his stuff, dares to say the stuff, and pretty much sticks to the
stuff," said a Chinese lawyer with a major Western law firm.	VERB
Most analysts say it is unlikely that he would initiate political reforms that
might distract from or threaten pressing economic measures.	EXPE
For all his straight talk on economics, however, Zhu's politics remains
something of a mystery. As vice premier, he has been dubbed China's "economic
czar." As premier, his portfolio will be broader.	EVAL
But many people hope Zhu will prove more liberal and open-minded than his
predecessor, Li Peng, who is still associated with the martial law and the
bloody army crackdown on June 4, 1989, that crushed student-led democracy
demonstrations in Tiananmen Square.	EXPE
Zhu was born in Hunan Province on Oct. 1, 1928. His father died before he was
born, and his mother died when he was young. Zhu lived with an uncle.	HIST
In 1947, he went to study electrical engineering at Qinghua University, China's
equivalent of MIT. There he joined the communist-backed New Democratic Youth
League in 1947 and the Communist Party in October 1949, just after the Communist
victory over the Nationalists.	HIST
By 1952, Zhu was working for the State Planning Commission, then China's most
important economic institution, responsible for assigning prices, credit and
output targets.	HIST
In 1957, however, during Mao's "Hundred Flowers" campaign to encourage criticism
of the Communist Party, Zhu criticized a policy of "irrational" high-level
growth.	HIST
When Mao abruptly ended the brief Hundred Flowers period and launched a campaign
against the party's critics, Zhu was labeled a "rightist" and sent to the
countryside to do menial labor.	HIST
Though many people branded as rightists were political liberals and democrats,
there is no indication that Zhu fell into that category.	EVAL
"If he couldn't get along well with people, that could have been enough of a
reason," said Li Cheng, a professor at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y.	VERB
Zhu was proven right as Mao's Great Leap Forward soon plunged the country into
famine. In 1962, Zhu's "rightist cap" was removed and he returned to the
planning commission.	HIST
But in 1970, the fourth year of the Cultural Revolution, Zhu again was sent to
the countryside.	HIST
Zhu wasn't rehabilitated until 1979, after the Cultural Revolution ended and
senior leader Deng Xiaoping solidified his power. Zhu sped through government
ranks, becoming Shanghai's mayor in 1988.	HIST
As mayor, he gained a reputation for efficiency, cutting through the layers of
formal approvals and official seals needed to launch joint ventures.	HIST
His most severe test came in 1989, when student demonstrators demanded greater
democracy and less corruption. In Beijing hundreds were killed in the crackdown,
but in Shanghai, Zhu's televised plea persuaded protesters to withdraw
relatively peacefully.	HIST
Four days after the Beijing massacre, Zhu published a speech in Shanghai's major
newspapers. Shunning the official terms "turmoil" and "counterrevolution" to
describe the protests, Zhu said: "The event that occurred recently in Beijing is
a historical fact, and historical facts cannot be covered up by anybody. The
truth will always come out."	HIST
The ambiguous statement angered Communist hard-liners who wanted a more vigorous
denunciation of the protesters.	HIST
Zhu's handling of events in Shanghai later became an asset. During his 1990 U.S.
tour with other Chinese mayors, Zhu could field criticisms of the 1989 crackdown
without sounding defensive.	EVAL
His style hasn't won over everyone.	EVAL
"He is a creature of the state planning system and his instincts are regulation,
not decontrol of the economy," said David Shambaugh, director of George
Washington University's Sigur Center for Asian Studies. Still, business leaders
like Zhu.	VERB
In 1991, Zhu went to Beijing as vice premier. When Li Peng had heart trouble in
April 1993, Zhu took over the economic portfolio from him and never let it go.	HIST
The tasks have been formidable. In 1993, banks diverted cash to flimsy business
ventures and paid farmers with worthless IOUs, igniting widespread peasant
protests. Zhu banned that practice.	HIST
In 1994, he began to transform the People's Bank of China from a cash box for
state enterprises into a genuine central bank. Dissatisfied with the bank
president, he took over the job himself.	HIST
That same year, to improve lax collection of taxes, Zhu forced provinces to turn
over tax revenue to the central government in return for a greater share of the
receipts.	HIST
By 1995, China's economy was overheating and inflation hit about 25 percent.
Brushing aside complaints by managers of state-owned enterprises, Zhu clamped
down on bank-issued credits to subsidize the enterprises that were losing money.
He also imposed price controls on staple foods. Today, inflation is zero and
prices have been falling slightly for four months.	HIST
Zhu has moved cautiously to open financial markets. In 1993, recalls Tianjin's
Ye, "we really wanted to open China wider to the outside world, but Zhu said,
'With only $ 20 billion in foreign reserves how could we open wider and make
investors confident?' "	VERB
Given Asia's current economic meltdown, Ye adds, "He's been proven right."	VERB
Today, China has $ 140 billion in foreign exchange reserves, a fixed currency
and $ 40 billion to $ 50 billion a year in foreign investment.	CIRC
Daunting problems lie ahead: ailing banks, a porous social safety net and the
specter of huge layoffs by unprofitable state-owned enterprises. Zhu says the
enterprises will be fixed within three years, but the economy badly needs a new
engine of growth and job creation for tens of millions of rural migrants and
laid-off urban workers.	EXPE
"The party recognizes that its strength depends on the economy, and this is a
guy who can deliver," said Hormats, the Goldman Sachs executive.	VERB

Government antitrust officials are taking aim at Rupert Murdoch's latest 
highflying venture.	LEAD
After almost eight months of investigation, the Justice Department is preparing 
to challenge a plan by Murdoch's News Corp. and MCI Communications Corp. to 
merge their U.S. satellite TV operations with Primestar Partners, the nation's 
second-largest satellite TV company, sources familiar with the inquiry say. The 
department's telecommunications staff will recommend soon that the merger be 
blocked outright or substantially modified, according to these sources.	MAIN
Although such a recommendation doesn't guarantee that the government will sue to 
stop Murdoch-MCI and Primestar, it reflects deep-seated concerns by staff 
experts about the pending $ 1.1 billion deal.	EVAL
"The staff would like to stop this," said a source, who asked not to be 
identified. "It'll be a lot tougher to explain a decision not to do something 
than a decision to challenge it."	VERB
As Primestar is partly owned by four large cable TV companies, Justice officials 
are worried that Primestar will use the powerful Murdoch-MCI satellite 
operations to harm competing satellite TV companies and preserve the cable 
industry's market dominance.	CIRC
District-based MCI and News Corp., through a joint venture called American Sky 
Broadcasting, own a choice orbital "slot," essentially a parking space in outer 
space. MCI bought the slot for $ 682.5 million at a government auction in 1996. 
The slot is highly valuable because it is one of only three available in this 
country from which a satellite can beam TV programs across most of North America 
simultaneously. The other two slots are being used by Primestar's competitors, 
DirecTV Inc. and Echostar Communications Corp.	CIRC
American Sky Broadcasting agreed in June to transfer its slot to Primestar for $ 
1.1 billion in preferred, nonvoting stock.	PREV
The Justice Department's lengthy review of the deal is already threatening to 
scuttle Primestar's plans to launch a satellite this summer. The company has 
been hoping to use the satellite and the MCI-News Corp. slot to enable its 
subscribers to begin using 18-inch receiving dishes. Primestar customers now use 
dishes that are 33 to 36 inches wide.	CIRC
The company believes moving to the smaller dish, now used by DirecTV and 
Echostar's Dish Network, will allow it to gain more subscribers in urban and 
suburban areas where larger dishes are impractical.	EVAL
"It is important for Primestar to get this issue resolved soon," said Daniel J. 
O'Brien, Primestar's president, in a statement.	VERB
"We'll continue to work to provide the government with the information they need 
to render a decision, and we're still hopeful for a positive outcome," O'Brien 
said.	VERB
A long list of opponents to the deal has emerged, including DirecTV, Echostar, 
small cable operators, companies that use microwaves to send TV signals to 
subscribers and regional phone companies Bell South Corp. and Ameritech Corp., 
which are trying to enter the cable business.	CIRC
Critics argue that Primestar could potentially hurt them in one of two key ways: 
by withholding popular cable programming the Primestar partners own, or by 
marketing "bundled" cable and satellite TV service at a price that would 
substantially undersell competitors.	VERB
Sources close to Primestar say these concerns are misplaced, and safeguards 
could easily be put in place even if there was a potential harm. Blocking the 
deal, they argue, would ultimately harm consumers by denying them services 
Primestar could provide, and would place the valuable Murdoch-MCI satellite slot 
in limbo.	VERB
The Federal Communications Commission is conducting a separate review of the 
Primestar-Murdoch-MCI combination, and is likely to rule on it next month. The 
FCC must determine whether the deal is in "the public interest," a somewhat 
hazily defined standard that gives the agency wide discretion.	EXPE
Primestar's largest shareholder is TCI Satellite Entertainment, a publicly 
traded spinoff of cable giant Tele-Communications Inc. Other cable industry 
owners include Time Warner Inc., MediaOne, Comcast Corp. and Cox Communications 
Inc.	CIRC

Snyder Communications Inc. of Bethesda announced yesterday that it has acquired
Arnold Communications Inc., one of New England's biggest advertising agencies,
significantly expanding the marketing services it can offer to clients.	MAIN
Privately held Arnold, which had about $ 750 million in billings and $ 90.7
million in revenue last year, handles advertising for such major corporations as
McDonald's Corp., Volkswagen of America Inc. and Bell Atlantic Corp. Its local
office in McLean is one of the biggest ad agencies in the Washington area, with
such clients as the National Geographic Society, the American Red Cross and SAP
AG, the German software maker.	CIRC
Adweek, a trade publication, recently selected Arnold as the New England Agency
of the Year for the third straight year.	CIRC
The purchase price was not disclosed, but analysts estimated it was about $ 120
million in stock. They said Snyder gains a nationally known creative powerhouse
by buying Boston-based Arnold. 	EVAL
Snyder creates targeted marketing campaigns for
telecommunications, packaged goods and pharmaceutical companies.	CIRC
An increasing number of Fortune 500 companies are turning to a single agency to
handle all of their marketing and communications needs. Previously, corporations
would spread their work around -- for example, one firm would handle public
relations and another would do advertising -- but nowadays they look for a
single "fully integrated" agency.	CIRC
For this reason, analysts said, the Arnold acquisition is a smart move for
Snyder,. With 900 employees, Arnold operates in several business areas that
Snyder does not, including advertising, public relations and interactive media
services.	EVAL
Arnold's direct marketing and database management services will complement
current offerings by Snyder, analysts said.	EVAL
"This brings some new clients to Synder and presents some opportunities for
cross-selling," said Fran Blechman Bernstein, an analyst at Merrill Lynch Global
Securities.	VERB
Snyder has marketed to patients since its founding. For example, the company
produces "WallBoards," posters with graphics, information and advertising in
doctors' offices and other medical facilities. With the acquisition of Arnold,
Snyder can make television commercials for its pharmaceutical clients, which
include 16 of the top 20 drug companies.	HIST
"Arnold is a perfect, perfect fit for our health-care areas," Daniel Snyder
said.	VERB
Daniel M. Snyder, Snyder's 33-year-old chairman and chief executive, who founded
the company with his sister in 1987, said the purchase will particularly help
the firm expand its direct-to-consumer pharmaceutical marketing business.	CONS
In the
past few years, drug companies have started targeting their products to specific
patient groups, in addition to selling to health-care officials.	CIRC
Snyder said Arnold will still be based in Boston and operate as an independent
division of his company, with current management remaining in place. He does not
expect layoffs.	VERB
With more than 6,800 employees, Snyder had $ 333.4 million in revenue last year
and a net loss of $ 8.2 million. Excluding charges related to various
acquisitions, the company had net income of $ 26.9 million. Analysts project its
1998 sales will exceed $ 600 million.	CIRC
Also yesterday, the Bethesda company said it acquired Publimed Promotions SA, a
Paris-based contract drug sales and marketing company, for $ 43 million in
stock. The purchase adds 925 people to Snyder's pharmaceutical sales force,
giving the company nearly 4,000 sales representatives.	MAIN
News of the two purchases sent Snyder's stock up $ 2.75 to close at $ 46 5/8
yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.	CONS
The Arnold and Publimed acquisitions cap a string of such deals for Snyder,
which spent more than $ 400 million to buy 12 companies in 1997. It has bought
four companies so far this year.	CIRC
Bernstein, the Merrill Lynch analyst, said she raised her earnings-per-share
estimates from 84 cents to 90 cents this year and from $ 1.25 to $ 1.31 in 1999.
Her 12-month price objective is now $ 58 a share, up from $ 50 a share.	VERB

Judith Evans, Washington Post Staff Writer

Host Marriott Corp., the Bethesda-based hotel owner, will announce today
that it will pay $ 1.7 billion to buy 13 luxury hotels from Blackstone Real
Estate Advisors II L.P., spin off its nursing homes into a separately
traded public company and convert its hotel operations into a real estate
investment trust.	LEAD
Host's purchase includes such highly prized properties as the Drake Hotel
in New York City, the Ritz-Carlton Amelia Island and the Hyatt Regency
Reston.	MAIN
The aim of Host Marriott's reorganization is to cash in on Wall Street's
fascination with REITs, broadening the appeal of the company's shares among
investors who in the past had been cool to the stock, said sources familiar
with the deal.	VERB
As a REIT, Host Marriott will have better access to less expensive
financing and a lower tax bill, because it will pay out nearly all of its
profits to shareholders in the form of dividends. Shareholders then pay the
taxes on that income. The REIT form of corporate structure has recently
become a popular way for hotel companies to own and operate their
properties.	CIRC
The Blackstone purchase will give Host 55,000 rooms, or $ 10 billion in
assets, compared with 26,000 rooms when it first became a public company in
1993. More importantly, sources said, the quality of the company's hotels
will improve, with nearly 55 percent of its properties considered luxury,
full-service hotels, compared with only 20 percent five years ago.	CONS
Officials from Marriott and Blackstone would not comment on the transaction
yesterday.	VERB
Host Marriott's moves also mark a significant turnaround for the company.
It was spun off in 1993 as a separate company from Marriott International
Inc., which now builds and manages hotels. At the time, investors and
analysts were skittish about Host because the company carried massive debt
and had divergent operations, including running food and beverage
concessions for airports and travel plazas.	HIST
Host Marriott in 1995 shed the concessions business, which now operates as
a publicly traded company, Host Marriott Services. In the past five years,
the company has reduced its ratio of debt to its total market to 47 percent
from 75 percent. The company's strategy is to improve that to 35 percent by
refinancing debt at lower interest rates through a conversion to a REIT.	HIST
The complex deal calls for Host Marriott to pay $ 835 million in cash and
debt, as well as 47 million operating partnership units in the REIT, for
the Blackstone hotels. Blackstone will own about 19 percent of Host
Marriott's outstanding shares. John Schreiber, a partner in Blackstone,
will join Host Marriott's board of directors.	CIRC
Shareholders can exchange the partnership shares for one share of Host
Marriott common stock, at which time they will have to pay taxes on the
transaction. But sources familiar with the deal said that in 1999, it will
add 26 cents a share on an estimated $ 800 million in funds from
operations, a key measure of financial performance for REITs. Analysts had
estimated Host Marriott would generate earnings of $ 2.15 a share for 1999.	VERB
Host Marriott expects to complete its conversion to a REIT by January 1999.
The deal is subject to shareholder approval, even though it will have no
effect on the existing stock ownership. But as part of spinning off the
senior living communities, Host Marriott will repurchase $ 1.55 billion of
outstanding debt securities.	EXPE
In the new senior living company, which has yet to be named, Host Marriott
shareholders will receive one share of stock for each share they now hold
and a cash distribution of as much as $ 1 a share. It is a taxable
transaction that Host Marriott estimates will range from $ 400 million to $
500 million. The company hopes the cash will help shareholders cover the
taxes on the transaction.	CONS
The new company will own 31 luxury retirement facilities in 12 states,
mostly those built and constructed by Marriott International.	CONS
Analysts had expected Host Marriott to join a cadre of hospitality
companies forming REITs, including CapStar Hotel Co., which announced last
month that it will merge with American General into a "paper-clipped" REIT.	VERB
The Clinton administration in January proposed eliminating the tax-free
status of mergers between "paired-shared" REITs after industry criticism
that that status helped Starwood Hotels & Lodging beat out the competition
in purchasing ITT Corp. and Westin Hotels. A paired-shared REIT operates
and manages properties in a C corporation and a REIT, which trade
separately. A paper-clipped REIT trades as one stock. The "paper clipped"
REIT and Host's conversion to an "umbrella partnership" REIT are less
controversial structures in the industry and among lawmakers than
paired-shared REITs.	PREV
Host Marriott's REIT will allow its stock to trade at a higher value,
allowing the company to use its stock to bid more for properties, several
analysts have said. The company will also be more attractive to sellers
because they can receive Host Marriott stock in exchange for the real
estate.	EXPE
"It fits very cleanly" for Host Marriott to become a REIT, said Mark
Mutkoski, a lodging analyst for Bankers Trust New York. "They have proven
in the past that they can acquire properties for a good price and improve
their cash flow."	VERB

Pol Pot, the notorious yet enigmatic Khmer Rouge leader whose reign of
terror in Cambodia left more than 2 million people dead but who was later
denounced by his own movement, was reported by his former comrades to have
died peacefully in his sleep late Wednesday night at age 73.	MAIN
In the last known film of him taken in July, a white-haired Pol Pot
appeared frail and sickly, suffering from malaria and unable to walk
without assistance. Since then, he has been under house arrest by the
colleagues he once commanded, even as their numbers have dwindled to a few
hundred because of defections and as their last jungle redoubt has become
encircled by Cambodian government troops about to finish off the guerrilla
movement and close off for good the bloodiest chapter in Cambodia's tragic
history.	CIRC
If his death is confirmed, it would mark an anticlimactic end for one of
history's most ruthless human rights abusers.	EVAL
Just days ago, his capture by
Cambodian troops seemed certain, and Clinton administration officials were
heady with the prospects of bringing Pol Pot before an international
tribunal to answer for his crimes.	CIRC
Today, however, officials in various capitals were seeking independent
confirmation that Pol Pot was indeed dead.	CONS
A Khmer Rouge official named Nuon Nou, who had been responsible for
guarding Pol Pot, informed Thai military officials early today of the death
of the group's disgraced leader. But by midday today, Thai officials in
Bangkok said they could not confirm that Pol Pot was dead without
independent verification, which might include photographs of the corpse or
else the actual body.	CIRC
A Thai official said a military team was crossing the border into Cambodia
to try to confirm the report of Pol Pot's death. "If he is really dead,
presumably they would want to provide some evidence," the official said.
Noting that past reports of Pol Pot's death and his supposed retirement
from active leadership have proven untrue, the official, speaking by
telephone, said, "We've been through this before."	VERB
"It was a verbal report made by a Khmer Rouge official to our officers," he
said. "The field officers are of the view that it looks pretty valid. They
gave a lot of weight to it. But the central authorities here in Bangkok
have asked for any independent verification."	VERB
In Washington, State Department officials also said they had no independent
confirmation whether Pol Pot was dead.	VERB
In Phnom Penh, the Cambodian capital, news of Pol Pot's death was greeted
with caution and some skepticism, with officials also demanding to see the
body before believing the reports from the jungle.	VERB
There was some speculation that if Pol Pot were dead, his former colleagues
may have simply eliminated him to prevent Cambodian troops from capturing
him, or to avoid having to turn him over to an international tribunal whose
proceedings might have cast an unwelcome spotlight back on the Khmer
Rouge's bloody rule of Cambodia from April 1975 until 1979.	CIRC
"Maybe they
just got rid of him," one Thai Foreign Ministry official said.	VERB
In Phnom Penh, Khieu Kanarith, the government spokesman, demanded an
autopsy, saying, "We request whoever has his body to turn it over to the
government." He added, "There are a lot of coincidences here."	VERB
The Associated Press quoted the Khmer Rouge official, Nuon Nou, as denying
any foul play in Pol Pot's death, saying he died from heart problems. Nuon
Nou reportedly told the Associated Press by telephone that the guerrillas
had taken photographs of the corpse as evidence.	CIRC
In a story based on interviews on April 11, American journalist Nate
Thayer, who last talked with Pol Pot in October, reported in the Far
Eastern Economic Review magazine that Nuon Nou and other hard-line Khmer
Rouge holdouts were ready to turn Pol Pot over to an international tribunal
but were uncertain whom to contact. Thayer suggested the guerrillas contact
the International Red Cross, according to the magazine account.	CIRC
"You can look at me, am I a savage person?" he asked Thayer in an interview
at the group's jungle base in Anlong Veng. "Everything I have done and
contributed is first for the nation and the people and the race of
Cambodia."	VERB
To the end, Pol Pot remained unrepentant, insisting that although he may
have made mistakes in power, "My conscience is clear."	VERB
After Vietnam's troops ousted Pol Pot, he led a guerrilla resistance
movement, with arms and assistance from China. Later, his guerrilla group's
clandestine radio station announced that Pol Pot had stepped down from
active leadership of the Khmer Rouge, a claim that few outsiders believed.	HIST
As part of his "purification" campaign, foreigners were expelled from
Cambodia, and anyone suspected of being educated, middle-class or linked to
the old regime was tortured and executed. Cambodia's current government --
led by Hun Sen, who was first installed in power by a Vietnamese invasion
force in 1979 that ousted the Khmer Rouge -- has preserved evidence of
Khmer Rouge atrocities at a schoolhouse called Tuol Sleng, whose classrooms
had been converted into torture chambers under Pol Pot's rule.	HIST
It was 23 years ago this week that Pol Pot's guerrillas, wearing what
became their trademark sandals, black pajama uniforms and red-checkered
scarves, marched into Cambodia's battered capital and declared the start of
"Year Zero," launching the most complete -- and brutal -- revolutionary
transformations of a society ever attempted. Taking a cue from China's
revolutionary leader Mao Zedong, Pol Pot put into practice an even more
extreme brand of Maoism, emptying the cities and forcing millions of
Cambodians into labor camps, abolishing all forms of money and currency,
shutting down schools and temples, and establishing an insidious
informants' network in which even children were asked to spy on parents.	HIST

The Clinton administration and members of Congress yesterday vowed to pass
strong anti-tobacco legislation even though the tobacco industry walked out
of the legislative process last week and threatened to fight such a bill in
court.	MAIN
Tobacco companies said last Wednesday that the June 1997 settlement
proposal reached with state attorneys general was "dead" and they were
abandoning attempts to craft legislation based on that deal.	VERB
Despite the walkout, "We will get bipartisan legislation this year," Health
and Human Services Secretary Donna E. Shalala declared on NBC's "Meet the
Press" yesterday. "There's no question about it because it's about public
health."	VERB
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who sponsored the leading tobacco bill in
Congress, said on CBS's "Face the Nation," "I'm optimistic that we can get
this done by this summer." Noting that the White House and public health
advocates have complained that his bill isn't tough enough while the
industry has said it cannot live with his bill, McCain said, "I think we
may be well-positioned."	VERB
Office of Management and Budget Director Franklin D. Raines, on ABC's "This
Week," said it was regrettable that the industry withdrew from the
legislative process. "We think they should come back, but no one is going
to beg them," Raines said.	VERB
Representatives of the industry yesterday stepped up their attacks on the
McCain bill, which they say is far more financially punishing to the
industry and affords it less protection from lawsuits than the settlement
tobacco companies reached last year.	VERB
The McCain bill would raise tobacco taxes by $ 1.10 per pack.	MAIN
But J. Philip
Carlton, the lead industry attorney negotiating tobacco legislation with
the White House and Congress, said that in practice, the McCain bill would
increase per-pack cigarette costs to $ 5, which would lead to greatly
increased black market sales of cigarettes and youths' "buying their
cigarettes from drug dealers." Carlton, who said some 2 million
tobacco-related jobs would be endangered by the bill, declared that the
industry would challenge the McCain bill in court if it is enacted.	VERB
The McCain bill would bankrupt tobacco companies, Philip Morris senior vice
president Steven C. Parrish warned on both "Meet the Press" and "Face the
Nation." "We cannot sit down and agree to do things that will end up
putting us out of business," he said on NBC.	VERB
Some industry analysts, such as Martin Feldman of Smith Barney, have said
the McCain bill would bankrupt tobacco companies, especially debt-ridden R.
J. Reynolds. But Jeffrey Harris, an MIT professor who studies the economics
of the tobacco industry, disagreed. "So far I haven't been able to find a
substantiation of why it would go bankrupt," Harris said in an inter view.
"Any penalty imposed on the industry is going to be passed on to consumers
in the form of higher prices."	VERB
Harris said the price increases would cause consumption and industry
profitability to decline. But he said the losses at each of the
multinational tobacco conglomerates could be offset to some degree by their
non-tobacco businesses and international sales of tobacco products. "What I
haven't been able to figure out yet is how any analyst is somehow getting
from moderate or even marked declines in domestic market profitability
translating into bankruptcy," Harris said, suggesting that even Reynolds
could deal with its debt load by the usual corporate belt-tightening tools,
including lower dividend payouts to shareholders.	VERB
Representatives of the industry also were asked whether last week's walkout
was a bluff or part of a long-term plan. A December 1997 memorandum
prepared for the industry by a consultant -- the Bozell Sawyer Miller Group
-- outlined an "exit" strategy for the industry.	CIRC
The memo called for an aggressive public education campaign in support of
the 1997 deal, in which the industry agreed to pay $ 368 billion over 25
years and accept restrictions to curb youth smoking in return for
protection against major lawsuits. But the memo suggested that if things
did not go well for tobacco companies, the industry could argue that it
"made a legitimate offer and the politicians played politics and made a
mess of it."	CIRC
The McCain bill would increase costs to the industry by about
40 percent -- to $ 516 billion over the next 25 years -- and would not give
the companies as much legal protection.	MAIN
Asked whether the industry was "just walking out in order to get a better
deal," Carlton responded, "Absolutely not!	VERB
"The process in Washington has gotten completely out of control," he said.
"It's gone from what once was a noble purpose of reducing youth smoking and
use of other tobacco products to a process now that has only to do with big
taxes, big government and big brother. And we're not bluffing."	VERB

Ann Eppard, who became an influential transportation lobbyist through her
close alliance with House Transportation Chairman Bud Shuster (R-Pa.), was
indicted by a federal grand jury yesterday for allegedly taking $ 230,000
in illegal payments to influence a massive Boston highway project while
serving as Shuster's top aide.	MAIN
Eppard, 55, also was charged with embezzling $ 27,500 from Shuster's
campaign committee -- she served as its assistant treasurer -- by allegedly
arranging phony payments for a consultant who then returned the money to
her through a relative.	MAIN
Since the Republican takeover of Congress in 1994, Shuster has become one
of the most powerful House committee chairmen, overseeing the $ 217 billion
highway bill. But at the same time, Shuster has been under investigation by
the grand jury that indicted Eppard yesterday. He has also been the subject
of a separate House Ethics Committee investigation of his dealings with
Eppard after she became a lobbyist.	CIRC
U.S. Attorney Donald Stern in Boston said in a statement that no one else
in Shuster's office participated in the seven-count indictment's list of
crimes, which occurred before Eppard left Shuster's staff after the 1994
election, but he added that the investigation is continuing.	MAIN
In a statement yesterday, Shuster called Eppard "one of the finest, most
decent and dedicated persons I have ever known," predicted she will be
"totally vindicated" and termed the accusations "a political indictment,
pure and simple."	VERB
Eppard's lawyer, Richard M. Egbert, said she "vehemently denies these
allegations" and the grand jury probe "smacks of political motivation."	VERB
Eppard, who opened her own lobbying firm after the 1994 GOP victory that
propelled Shuster to the chairmanship, has carved out a lucrative specialty
as a transportation lobbyist representing clients before her former boss.
She also has continued to serve as a $ 3,000-a-month consultant for
Shuster's campaign and tapped her lobbying clients to contribute to him.
Her lobbying firm, Ann Eppard Associates Ltd., reported billings of more
than $ 1 million in 1996, the most recent year for which figures are
available.	HIST
The indictment names both Eppard and Washington lobbyist, Vernon A. Clark,
68, charging them with conspiracy, mail fraud and wire fraud for a scheme
allegedly dating back to 1989, when Eppard was Shuster's chief of staff.	MAIN
It alleges that Eppard received illegal gratuities from Clark and two
Boston businessmen seeking her help in fighting plans to take their land
for a multibillion-dollar underground highway project known as the Big Dig.
Some of the gratuities were in the form of loans and disguised by being
funneled to a relative of Eppard's, the indictment alleges. Although not
named in the indictment, the relative is Eppard's son Ralph, who operates a
Chrysler dealership on Maryland's Eastern Shore.	MAIN
Sources familiar with the probe have said Stern's office is investigating
Shuster and has been trying to get Clark to provide evidence against the
congressman and Eppard. Clark, who first met Shuster and Eppard years ago
while lobbying for the billboard industry, was indicted in Boston on
unrelated conspiracy and tax fraud charges last month. His attorney,
Brendan Sullivan, declined to comment yesterday.	CIRC
In his statement, Stern said the alleged gratuities were not disclosed by
Eppard, "often were disguised with phony documents, and represented a
breach of public trust."	VERB
In a series of interviews for a Washington Post Magazine story published
Sunday, Eppard portrayed herself as a woman without financial means beyond
her congressional salary, which ranged from $ 67,000 to $ 110,000 in her
last decade on the Hill. She said she borrowed heavily from her government
retirement fund to pay for her son's education. In 1995, she told a
reporter, "I'm a woman with five Visa cards."	VERB
In December 1994, she bought a waterfront town house in Alexandria for $
823,000 after signing up a handful of well-paying clients. Early last year,
she traded up to a $ 1.4 million town house in the same complex. By last
year, her small lobbying shop was billing clients at the rate of $ 1.4
million a year.	HIST
The 31-page indictment outlined an alleged scheme that began in 1989 when
Richard Goldberg, part-owner of a parking lot near Logan International
Airport, and another businessman hired Clark to help them fight plans to
take their land for the Big Dig. News accounts in Boston have identified
Nicholas Contos, owner of a restaurant, as a cooperating witness in the
inquiry who acknowledged making a loan to Ralph Eppard's auto dealership.	MAIN
According to the indictment, Goldberg paid $ 10,000 in consulting fees to
Eppard's relative in 1990, and Clark paid the relative $ 15,000 in 1989 and
1991. In 1991, Goldberg and Contos reached separate deals on the land
disputes. After that, Clark made $ 130,000 in favorable loans to Eppard's
relative. The other businessman made an Eppard-solicited $ 75,000 loan to
the relative in early 1992. That was about the time Ralph Eppard opened his
car dealership.	MAIN
Eppard used her relative as a "straw" on one $ 30,000 loan from Clark she
needed to finance the purchase of a town house in Alexandria in 1993, the
indictment charges. Though the relative received much of the money, Eppard
herself benefited because her son's dealership paid her $ 10,300 in the
spring of 1993 and $ 100,000 from November 1994 to February 1995, and gave
her free use of a car.	MAIN
The indictment also listed several "official acts" it said Eppard took on
behalf of Clark and his clients from 1989 to 1994, when she left Shuster's
staff. In late 1993, for example, it said Eppard spoke with a Conrail
employee on behalf of Clark's unnamed client, Contos, about altering its
1991 land agreement with the restaurant owner.	MAIN
Shuster and Eppard met in Washington in 1969 when Shuster, a computer
business executive, hired Eppard as his executive assistant. Eppard
followed Shuster into congressional politics in the early 1970s and emerged
as a political force in Washington and Pennsylvania as his chief of staff,
chief fund-raiser and political alter ego. Although Shuster rarely
attracted an opponent, he and Eppard raised and spent millions on
activities that were tangentially related to campaigning, according to
reviews of Federal Election Commission records.	HIST

In the struggle over who should rule Nigeria and control its treasure of
oil, no place is more important -- or more on edge -- than this gritty port
and the surrounding swamplands of the Niger River delta.	LEAD
It has been 28 months since Nigeria's military government executed writer
Ken Saro-Wiwa and other dissidents to quash demands of local tribal
communities, notably that they be allowed to share in billions of dollars
of oil profits pumped from beneath the Nigerian delta.	PREV
Authorities keep tight military control on the delta, with frequent arrests
of suspected dissidents.	MAIN
But opposition to the government and its oil policy is growing, especially
among the young, according to residents and Nigerian political scholars.
The government has long contained dissent by co-opting or intimidating
tribal elders. But the delta's continued poverty and environmental problems
have radicalized youths who "no longer recognize the elders' authority,"
said Chinedu Uchegbu, a researcher for the Port Harcourt-based Institute
for Human Rights and Humanitarian Law.	MAIN
Protests and violence that began with Saro-Wiwa's Ogoni tribe continue to
spread among other groups, crimping oil production. As Nigeria's military
ruler, Gen. Sani Abacha, appears to be aiming to keep power despite his
promise to permit elections and civilian rule by autumn, many Nigerians
worry that political uncertainty could slide into civil upheaval. The
worries appear deepest in the delta.	MAIN
Tangled in the conflict are oil companies -- including American firms
Texaco Inc., Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp. -- that for years have been the
government's business partners in pumping and selling the delta's oil.	CONS
Environmental and human rights groups have condemned oil companies --
particularly the British-Dutch giant, Royal Dutch/Shell Group of Cos. --
for environmental damage and accused them of complicity in the repression
of dissidents, notably Ogonis.	VERB
Shell is trying to repair its image with a year-old human rights policy and
funding for a broad development program for delta communities. But Nigerian
scholars warn, and some company officials concede, that the effort can do
little against political repression and poverty in the delta as long as the
military continues to rule.	CIRC
Nigeria's oil industry boomed in the late 1960s. The more money it earned,
the more the military tightened its control, declaring in 1969 the
government's sole ownership of mineral rights.	HIST
For decades, the delta's mostly rural farmers and fishermen have seen
little benefit from tens of billions of dollars' worth of oil pumped out of
their homelands. In Nigeria's joint venture with Shell, which produces
almost half the country's oil, the government takes about 70 percent of the
sales price, Shell officials said. Twenty percent pays production costs,
Shell gets about 5 percent and minor partners share the rest.	HIST
Theoretically, the government is supposed to send 13 percent of gross oil
revenues to develop "oil communities." But villages still lack electricity,
running water, schools and clinics, and residents say the development money
is being diverted to enrich government officials.	MAIN
"The only safe thing to say is that money is flowing" for what are supposed
to be development projects, a Shell official said. "We don't know what is
flowing or to whom."	VERB
In 1990, the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People launched
protests, demanding a share of royalties, a halt to oil spills and
political autonomy. The government responded brutally, with sweeping
arrests and military raids on villages seen as dissident.	HIST
The protests radicalized and violence spread, in part, according to
Nigerian scholars, because authorities used government-appointed tribal
chiefs to encourage fighting among Ogonis and neighboring groups. By 1993,
Shell was forced to halt its operations in Ogoniland.	HIST
In 1994, after four Ogoni tribal leaders were slain, Abacha's government
charged Saro-Wiwa and eight other Ogoni leaders with murder. A special
tribunal, widely criticized as unfair, convicted them of murder the
following year and they were hanged. The executions shattered the Ogoni
protest campaign, forcing many of its leaders into exile.	HIST
In Ogoniland, a farming district east of Port Harcourt, a military unit,
the Rivers State Internal Security Task Force, continues to rule. In its
latest crackdown, in January, it arrested at least 40 Ogonis, "not bringing
charges [but] simply locking them away," said Uchegbu, the researcher.	PREV
Troops recently have raided churches, warning ministers to stop preaching
about environmental or other political issues, he said.	MAIN
Nineteen Ogonis, imprisoned on the same murder charges made against
Saro-Wiwa, have yet to be put on trial nearly four years after their
arrests.	MAIN
Beyond Ogoniland, there has been "an unprecedented militarization of the
[delta] region," Uchegbu said. He and others said a new anti-crime patrol
by police and troops, called Operation Flush, is intimidating people in oil
field villages where protests and violence have increased in the past year.	MAIN
Last year, hundreds of people died around the city of Warri when young men
of the Ijaw and Itsekiri tribes battled for weeks with cutlasses and
automatic weapons over control of a local government. Government troops
eventually regained control, but the dispute simmers.	PREV
Protesters routinely occupy and close oil platforms and other facilities to
get government attention for their communities' grievances.	MAIN
 Near Warri last
year, protesters seized several pumping stations, holding 127 Shell workers
hostage for several days.	PREV
In the Nembe district, young men often shut down Shell's oil pumps, as they
did last month. At the same time, youths of the Koluama tribe occupied a
Texaco offshore oil platform, demanding electricity, potable water and work
for their communities.	CIRC
Such protests routinely crimp oil production by 5 percent to 10 percent.	CONS
Delta communities complain that continued oil spills foul their lands and
waterways, but Shell says most leaks in recent years have been caused by
people drilling or cutting into pipelines in hopes of getting compensation
from the company for the spills. Isaac Osuaka, an activist with a Nigerian
group, Environmental Rights Action, said there is no way to verify Shell's
account because government agencies are underequipped to monitor spills.	VERB
"And this government is the majority owner" of the Shell-run production
company, "so how independent do you think it will be?" he asked.	VERB
Following global protests about police brutality and the Ogoni leaders'
executions, Shell has distanced itself from the government's use of force
in the delta. In earlier years, Shell worked closely with Nigerian security
agencies, helping to fund the police that protected its facilities.	CONS
The company now resists calling for police help and "will not operate
behind a security shield," said Victor Dania, Shell's public relations
director in Port Harcourt.	VERB
Shell says it has "on many occasions publicly appealed for an early and
fair trial" of the 19 Ogonis still held in connection with Saro-Wiwa's
case, and Dania said the company has delivered that message privately "at
the highest government levels."	VERB
But Dania conceded there has been "no public response" from Abacha's
government. Human rights groups say Shell is failing to exert the influence
it holds as Nigeria's business partner in exporting nearly half of the
country's oil. They say Shell should publicize its position widely within
Nigeria.	VERB
Given that oil provides the military government with 80 percent of its
revenues, "I understand how people think we have a lot of influence over
the government," said Rob Cornish, a senior Shell manager in Port Harcourt.
"But we don't."	VERB

Two more multibillion-dollar deals by financial firms were announced today,
bolstering Wall Street's conviction that this week's marriage of Citicorp
and Travelers Group signals a new bout of merger mania.	LEAD
Household International Inc., one of the nation's largest consumer lenders,
agreed to buy Beneficial Corp., another giant consumer finance company, in
an $ 8.6 billion deal. And Conseco Inc., a life and health insurer, agreed
to buy Green Tree Financial Corp. in a $ 7.6 billion arrangement.	MAIN
Despite the financial deals, the overall stock market retreated from the
record high set by blue-chip stocks on Monday.	CONS
The Dow Jones industrial average declined 76.73 points, or 0.85 percent, to
8956.50, just one day after it closed above 9000 for the first time ever.
The Standard and Poor's 500-stock index fell 11.83 points, or 1.1 percent,
to 1109.55. The steepest drop came in the Nasdaq composite index, which
tumbled 30.43 points, or 1.7 percent, to 1798.71.	CONS
Money managers and analysts attributed part of the drop to fears that
corporate profits are slowing, triggered by Motorola Inc.'s warning that
its sales have been hurt by Asia's economic troubles and competition from
European rivals.	EVAL
Some investors also are skeptical about the plan to merge Citicorp and
Travelers. Both stocks declined today after big gains Monday, with Citicorp
falling 15 3/8, to 165 1/8, and Travelers declining 4 5/8, to 68 3/8. Other
financial shares also dropped, including J.P. Morgan, which fell 4-11/16,
to 139-15/16.	CONS
Although today's mergers are only a fraction of the size of the $ 82
billion Citicorp-Travelers deal, they reflect the same strategic imperative
to grow in size and efficiency or lose out in the fast-changing financial
services industry.	EVAL
Officials at Household International and Beneficial said in a statement
that their combination will "have the financial strength, portfolio balance
and expanded market presence that will allow us to provide superior returns
for shareholders."	VERB
"Our employees and customers will also benefit," the statement said.	VERB
Conseco and Green Tree officials said their agreement will ultimately help
secure the "Middle America consumer franchise" by offering a wider range of
insurance and financial services to 11 million middle-class customers
around the country.	VERB
"The financial services industry is converging rapidly, as recent events
make abundantly clear," said Stephen C. Hilbert, Conseco's president and
chief executive. "Traditional categories, and traditional companies, are
disappearing."	VERB
Analysts agreed, saying the new combinations add to the pressure to
consolidate and grow larger.	EXPE
"This is the view in the industry, that you must be of a certain size to
remain competitive. . . . 'Bigger is better. Bigger is more efficient. You
must be big to survive,' " said Kathryn H. Bissette, a financial industry
analyst with Sterne, Agee & Leach in Atlanta. "The idea of consolidation is
well underway."	VERB
Among the likely candidates for future deals are Chase Manhattan Bank and
Merrill Lynch, which have been the subject of rumors for months. Analysts
also cited J.P. Morgan, PaineWebber and Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter as
companies that likely felt more vulnerable after the announcement by
Citicorp and Travelers.	EXPE
"That deal changed the definition of 'large,' " said David Hochstim, an
equity analyst at Bear, Stearns.	VERB
Hochstim said he expects more consolidations.	VERB
"This merger suggests that almost anything can be acquired or merged. . . .
We've had three pretty significant deals in the last two days. What's next?
Four?"	VERB

PARIS, April 3-
 PARIS, April 3

Jean-Marie Le Pen, the leader of France's far-right National Front party,
today said he will appeal a court ruling denying him the right to hold
office for two years, hinting at a government scheme to suppress his
movement when it is showing its latest ripple of strength.	MAIN
"It's only in totalitarian countries that courts are used to eliminate
political adversaries of the powerful," Le Pen said the morning after a
judge in Versailles ruled that Le Pen had shoved and insulted a Socialist
candidate running against his daughter in last year's national legislative
campaign.	VERB
The incident occurred in Mantes-la-Jolie, in a tightly-contested district
near Paris, at a rally for Marie-Caroline Le Pen, the National Front
candidate. Witnesses and video footage indicated that Le Pen and his bodyguards had accosted a group of counter-demonstrators that included
Annette Peulvast-Bergeal, the Socialist candidate and eventual victor in
the district.	PREV
"We've had it up to here with you," Le Pen told Peulvast-Bergeal, yanking
the tricolor scarf around her neck and pushing her to the ground, shaking
off efforts to break up the melee. He and his bodyguards also punched and
verbally abused other demonstrators, the court found. Later, Le Pen, 69, a
former paratroop commander in Algeria, was quoted as saying, "That made me
feel younger."	PREV
The judge's ruling also stripped Le Pen of the right to vote for two years,
fined him $ 3,800 and gave him a three-month suspended prison sentence. The
judgment could force Le Pen to give up his seat in the European Parliament
and his place on the regional governing council in southern France, where
the National Front's political base is.	PREV
Le Pen's status in the European Parliament may not protect him from
prosecution by German authorities for another incident, in Munich last
December, when Le Pen repeated a favored belief that the systematic
extermination of 6 million Jews by the Nazis would be remembered as a
"detail" of history.	PREV
The prosecutor's office in Munich asked the German government today to lift
Le Pen's parliamentary immunity so it can prosecute him for inciting racial
hatred. The request is to be referred to the European Parliament, where Le
Pen is one of 11 National Front members.	PREV
A French court in December fined Le Pen $ 50,000 for the Munich statement,
which was nearly identical to one he made in France 11 years ago, for which
he was fined $ 200,000. He and other National Front leaders have been
censured frequently by French courts for making antisemitic or racist
remarks.	PREV
Le Pen's party, which these days draws 15 percent of the vote in French
elections by espousing a credo of French nationalism and racial purity, has
roiled the political waters here in recent weeks.	CIRC
The center-right presidents of three regional councils elected March 15
have wrested power from Socialists, the top vote-getters, by accepting the
support of National Front councillors. The controversial deals were the
first concrete admission by the French mainstream right that it may have to
do political business with a party the French Establishment is loath even
to recognize.	EVAL
President Jacques Chirac, responding to the crisis unleashed by the
National Front's inroads on the regional level, is trying to formulate a
"renewal" of the French political system and, less overtly, a rescue of the
political right that includes his own battered party.	EVAL
Chirac's ongoing discussions with top political figures across most of the
spectrum do not include any consultations with the National Front.	CIRC

TOKYO, March 31-
 TOKYO, March 31

At Bic Camera, one of Japan's most popular consumer electronics chains, you
can buy cameras, stereos and TV sets. Starting Wednesday you can also buy
yen.	CONS
In recent days, clerks in its stores have been learning to convert dollars
to yen, and brushing up on their English.	CIRC
"It's difficult to predict how many people we will get" for the foreign
exchange business, said Tatsuhiko Asaka, an executive with Bic Camera.
"Possibly 50 or 60 customers a day, but I don't really know."	VERB
Wednesday is the official start of "Big Bang," Japan's program to
deregulate its strictly controlled financial markets by 2001. Bic Camera is
just one of countless companies that will jump into businesses that for
decades were closed to them by law.	MAIN
The aim is to open up the country to global capital, drawing in foreign
banks and securities firms to transform Tokyo into a vibrant financial
center to rival New York and London. At the same time, officials hope, it
will strengthen Japan's many faltering financial institutions and help them
stoke an economy that has been locked in stagnation for much of the '90s.	EVAL
Over time, the shifts could encourage Japan's people to send abroad more of
the estimated $ 10 trillion that they hold in personal savings and
financial assets, many analysts believe.	VERB
Masaru Takagi, an economics professor at Meiji University in Tokyo,
predicts that in 10 years, about 10 percent of Japan's savings will be
invested overseas.	VERB
Others believe things will move more slowly. "I don't expect to see a
significant change as of April 1," said Mitsuru Saito, market economist for
Sanwa Bank.	VERB
Over time, Japanese may begin to shift to overseas investments, Saito said,
"but capital will not just be flowing one way. It will be flowing into
Japan as well as out. Particularly now -- with more foreign interest in
buying Japanese real estate and companies, foreign money could flow in."	VERB
The latest steps build on changes enacted last year that made it easier for
Japanese to buy mutual funds, both foreign and domestic. For instance,
mutual fund companies were allowed to sell their products in banks. In
December, U.S. firm Fidelity Investments set up booths in numerous banks.
Analysts and bankers say sales have been slow, but Fidelity officials
responded that they viewed the effort as an educational process. Fidelity
is launching its own phone sales operation Wednesday.	PREV
One reason many analysts predict a gradual change is the generally
conservative investment attitude of the typical Japanese. In a report
issued today, the Bank of Japan found that during October and December of
last year, as the Japanese stock market headed down, investments in mutual
funds fell by 16 percent and stock holdings fell by 22.6 percent, while
cash on hand grew by 7.9 percent.	EVAL
Shozo Yamane, a 73-year-old sake brewer, said he is not interested in risky
investments. He said the stock and currency markets are a game "only
younger people should play. At my age, I cannot afford to make such a
loss."	VERB
Investment advisers say that they have been surprised by the amount of
interest from people in their twenties and thirties.	VERB
"I'm thinking of dabbling in it myself," said Hiroko Ohta, a 28-year-old
reporter for the popular weekly magazine Shukan Josei, which is aimed at
the twentyish crowd. The current issue strayed from its usual fare of
articles on celebrity romances and modeling tips to feature a story by Ohta
entitled: "Big Bang. All It Takes Is 10 Minutes to Understand."	VERB
"I'm always interested in doing something trendy, so now I am interested in
mutual funds," Ohta said.	VERB
Fidelity, Merrill Lynch and other U.S. institutions have said they expect
to do well in the emerging freewheeling environment. Indeed, a survey by a
major Japanese institution found that a significant percentage of people
said they planned to increase transactions with Citibank, while cutting
their business with many Japanese banks. When asked what banks they
intended to use most, Citibank ranked second, surpassed only by Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi.	VERB
The Big Bang phase that begins Wednesday will remove many foreign exchange
controls, allowing money to flow more freely across Japan's borders. It
will lift controls on commissions on securities trades of more than $
385,000, to encourage more competition. It will let anyone get into the cur
rency-changing business, with no license required.	CONS
If fully carried out over the coming three years, Big Bang would turn on
its head many of the principles that guided Japan's postwar financial
industry. For years, the government divided up the market, letting certain
types of institutions do only certain types of business -- for instance,
trust banks could manage pension funds, but ordinary banks could not.
Countless types of simple transactions required a bureaucrat's stamp of
approval.	EVAL
The government maintained that this ensured order and stability in a
crucial economic sector that took in savings and provided capital for
export industries. Now, the prevailing view is that the protections have
created weakness and dependency, while foreign banks and brokerage houses
have become lean and efficient.	CIRC
All over Japan, banks and finance companies are holding hundreds of
billions of dollars of bad loans left from the collapse of the "bubble
economy" of the 1980s. The government has been moving ahead with the
changes despite concerns they will push some weak firms into collapse,
saying that could be the price of future buoyancy.	CIRC
Already officials have shown they are willing to let the truly sick
institutions die. Yamaichi Securities Co., once Japan's largest securities
house, officially closed its last offices today, four months after
authorities revealed the severity of its losses.	PREV
Though officials use the term Big Bang, as if everything happens at once,
they have in fact been nibbling away at many rules for years. According to
Clifford J. Shaw, president of Mercury Asset Management Japan Ltd.,
Japanese already can buy foreign stocks, foreign mutual funds and hold
foreign currency deposits in Japan, in banks such as Citibank and Sanwa
Bank.	VERB
For individual investors, the major change under the new rules will be
freedom to open bank accounts overseas without government approval,
eliminating paperwork and hassles. Analysts here say that some Japanese
will shift funds to foreign banks to take advantage of higher interest
rates, but that the numbers probably will be limited because of the
potential for foreign-currency losses if the value of the yen suddenly were
to rise.	VERB
"It's also possible money will flow overseas to evade taxes," Inoue said.	VERB
For institutional investors, the major change will be an end to
restrictions on how much domestic pension funds must invest in Japanese
markets. For the past two years, the Japanese government has permitted
Japanese pension funds to apply for exemptions from those restrictions on a
case-by-case basis, Shaw said. So "I don't see this as being a sort of
crash, bang, wallop thing, but rather a steady burn," he said.	VERB
Another reform taking effect on Wednesday will allow any company and
individual to make foreign exchange transactions. News media have predicted
that convenience stores and a host of other retailers would plunge into
this business. But so far, no convenience store has stepped forward.	EVAL
"I think most places are taking a wait-and-see attitude," said Asaka of Bic
Camera, one of the few retailers with plans to try the currency business.	VERB

UNITED NATIONS-
 UNITED NATIONS

When an ambassadorial committee considering how to overhaul the United
Nations meets here Monday, Secretary General Kofi Annan will introduce an
important new player in the reform process. She is Louise Frechette, a
veteran Canadian diplomat chosen by Annan to be the world body's first
deputy secretary general.	LEAD
Frechette, 51, has been at work in the 38th-floor executive offices of the
secretariat for more than a month. But except for a couple of brief forays
into the public eye -- including taking over in Annan's absence two weeks
ago to deliver a sharp protest to the Congolese ambassador over his
government's mistreatment of a U.N. human rights official -- she has
remained in the background.	CIRC
"It is the secretary general, with his concerns about international peace
and security, who must be out front in dealing with the individual member
states and the Security Council, who handles the politics, the negotiating,
the travel," she said in an interview. "My job is to deal with the inside
of the organization -- to get this big, often unwieldly machine to respond
to his orders and to see to it that what we promise, we will do."	VERB
A big part of what Frechette calls "the frequently tedious tasks of
implementation" will involve her oversight of the reforms that Annan has
staked out as the cornerstone of his administration. He took office a year
ago with a pledge to reshape the organization to cope with the challenges
of a new century, and on Monday he will announce that he is putting
Frechette in charge of the reform program.	EXPE
High on the list of his proposed changes was a promise to increase greatly
the number of women in top U.N. policy and management posts. Annan's
initial preference for the deputy secretary general job was widely thought
to be Sadako Ogata of Japan, the U.N. high commissioner for refugees. When
she opted to stay in that job, he turned to Frechette, a former Canadian
ambassador to the U.N. who before returning here was Canada's deputy
defense minister.	PREV
Joining Ogata, former Ireland president Mary Robinson, chosen by Annan to
head the U.N. human rights commission, and former Norwegian prime minister
Gro Bruntland Harland, who with Annan's support recently was elected head
of the World Health Organization, Frechette is part of the most visible and
influential presence that women have had in the 52-year history of the
United Nations. She says she intends to put a high priority on ensuring
that it is not a fleeting phenomenon.	CIRC
"Kofi is very anxious that we send a powerful message to managers that we
need to create a pool of qualified women at all levels and to make full use
of what they offer," she said. "It's not just a question of appointing
women who have had distinguished careers elsewhere. I'm going to work on
our personnel system to ensure that it gives women who join as junior
officers the chance to rise on the same terms as men."	VERB
Ofall the women now holding top-level U.N. posts, Frechette has the job
description with the most far-ranging responsibilities. She will be in
charge of reform issues, will be the equivalent of a chief of staff for the
cabinet-style management being instituted by Annan, and, since she has to
fill in for the secretary general during his travels, she has to be
informed about everything on the U.N. agenda.	CIRC
"I don't think I'll be traveling very much," she said. "Mostly I won't be
all that visible from day to day. My place is to stay behind my desk and
make sure that things happen."	VERB
While it is too early to make any judgments about whether she will succeed,
U.N. diplomats and bureaucrats agree that her background gives cause for
optimism. Few people know the inner workings of the United Nations as well
as Frechette, who first came here in the 1970s as a junior member of the
Canadian delegation and who returned after an extensive diplomatic career
to serve as Canada's ambassador from 1992 through 1995.	EVAL
Among her colleagues at the time was the then-U.S. ambassador, Madeleine K.
Albright, and the two collaborated closely during the 1994 crisis over
Haiti in creating a peacekeeping operation to accompany the return from
exile of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. When Frechette was picked to be
deputy secretary general, a spokesman for Albright, now secretary of state,
said she regarded Frechette as one of the finest diplomats she had
encountered and a "perfect choice" for the post.	HIST
"Actually, what has helped me the most was not my previous U.N. experience
but my three years at the Defense Department in Canada," Frechette noted.
"The challenge there was making a big organization produce and perform, and
that's what I'm expected to do here. That experience made me better
prepared than if I had come straight from being an ambassador."	VERB
One thing Frechette particularly likes in her change of jobs is the chance
to live in New York again. "No offense to Ottawa," she says, "but I'm a
real fan of New York. I think it was most fortuitous that the U.N. founding
fathers picked the city rather than some suburb or small town. You step out
on a New York street, and your mind is instantly stimulated by being in
touch with all that energy. I just hope that my job gives me some time now
and then to enjoy it."	VERB

President Clinton yesterday nominated a University of New Mexico administrator
to take over the contentious post of commissioner of the Food and Drug
Administration, and the nomination immediately drew hints of opposition from
some members of the Senate.	MAIN
Clinton selected Jane E. Henney, vice president for health sciences at the
University of New Mexico, a doctor and cancer specialist who has worked at the
National Cancer Institute and served as a deputy to then-FDA Commissioner David
A. Kessler from 1992 to 1994. 	MAIN
If confirmed, Henney, 51, would be the first woman
to become FDA commissioner.	CONS
Clinton urged quick Senate action on the long-awaited nomination, saying that
senators "will conclude that she is extremely well qualified to serve as
commissioner as the agency prepares itself to meet the challenges of the 21st
century."	VERB
FDA officials said that Henney would not be available for comment until the
confirmation process is complete. Through a spokeswoman, Henney said: "There is
no greater honor than to be asked to return to public service and to lead the
FDA, an agency that plays such a vital role in protecting and promoting the
health of the American people."	VERB
The nomination comes as the FDA faces a number of challenges. The agency, which
regulates 25 cents of every dollar consumers spend, is more prominent than ever.	EVAL
It bears responsibility for ensuring that drugs are safe and effective, and has
a major role in maintaining the safety of foods and the blood supply. In
addition, the agency faces an often-hostile Congress, which last year passed
extensive FDA reform legislation.	CIRC
That alone presents a daunting task for the
agency, which must now produce a shelf of new regulations, "guidances" and other
publications to fulfill the mandates of the law.	EXPE
Kessler yesterday called Henney "one of the best physician-managers I know.
She's her own person and will do a wonderful, do a terrific job."	VERB
Since Kessler left the agency more than a year ago to head the Yale University
Medical School, the FDA has been run by its lead deputy commissioner, Michael
Friedman.	CIRC
Representatives of industries FDA regulates said yesterday that they knew little
about Henney but hoped to learn more during the confirmation process. "This is
as important a nomination as the FDA has ever had in its history," said Carl
Feldbaum, head of the Biotechnology Industries Association. Any new commissioner
has to plot a careful middle course, Feldbaum said, between "people in the
agency who want no change or slow change" and some people in industry and
Congress "who think any change is beneficial."	VERB
Senators said they will vet Henney carefully. Sen. James M. Jeffords (R-Vt.),
who chairs the Labor and Human Resources Committee, which will consider the
nomination, said: "It is not going to be a quick one," because senators have
already raised questions about the nominee. He predicted that hearings are
unlikely before the end of July and "probably much later."	VERB
Aides to several Republican senators wanted to know if Henney played a role in
the agency's promotion of RU-486, the French "abortion pill."	VERB
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who championed Henney's nomination, said, "She
knows the issues, she knows the agency, and she's a proven leader." While
Kennedy made no reference to controversy over the nomination, a Democratic
staffer acknowledged, "Anyone who follows in Dr. Kessler's footsteps is going to
get a lot of scrutiny." Another source said that senators know little about her
but that her service under Kessler and strong support from Kennedy may raise
concerns among some Republicans.	VERB
Kessler brought an unusually high profile to the post with his agenda, which
included asserting FDA authority over tobacco for the first time. But he also
became a symbol of over-aggressive government for some members of Congress
because of some of his actions, such as his attempt to crack down on health
claims made for foods and nutritional supplements.	PREV
A senior administration official predicted that Henney would ultimately gain
confirmation in the Senate: "She comes to this job with a broad base of
support."	VERB
"She's a
lot more qualified than anyone who's ever taken the job before," including
Kessler, said a senior FDA official.	VERB
Henney would bring strong skills to such a task, having had much to do with the
FDA's implementation of landmark 1992 legislation that set up a user fee system
that dramatically shortened review times of new drugs, officials said.	EVAL

BEIJING, June 29-
 


China trumpeted $ 2 billion worth of deals signed with U.S. companies today at 
the Great Hall of the People to mark President Clinton's visit, but many of them 
had been agreed to long before Clinton's arrival in China.	LEAD
Contracts worth another $ 1.1 billion were signed with U.S. companies last week 
before Clinton's arrival, the official Chinese news agency said.	PREV
A huge component of the total -- China's purchase of 16 Boeing 737 passenger 
planes and a 747 jumbo jet -- was agreed to last year. The 17 aircraft, worth $ 
800 million, were among a fleet of 50 that China agreed to buy during President 
Jiang Zemin's U.S. visit last October. Boeing said today, however, that a new 
letter of intent was signed to sell 10 additional 737s worth $ 400 million.	PREV
Clinton did not attend the signings; administration officials said that was to 
avoid any suggestion that American policy might be connected to the sale of 
American products.	VERB
China's is promoting the total figure apparently in hopes of defusing American 
frustration over the huge U.S. trade deficit with China, which hit $ 50 billion 
in 1997. At an American Chamber of Commerce dinner here Sunday night, 
administration officials and members of Congress warned that the huge deficit is 
politically "unsustainable." The contracts signed here would make only a small 
dent in the trade deficit.	CIRC
China sought to highlight several purchases of American goods, nonetheless. 
Today, General Electric Co. signed a $ 161.7 million deal to sell an integrated 
steam turbine system to China's Huaneng Group, a Chinese government statement 
said. Chinese state energy giant Sinochem agreed to import 2 million tons of 
phosphate fertilizer worth $ 400 million from U.S. companies PhosChem, Cargill 
Inc. and Hydro Farmland. Dasibi Environmental Corp., a U.S. firm, signed an 
accord to sell air-quality monitoring equipment worth $ 5 million to the State 
Environment Protection Administration.	MAIN
In addition, Atlantic Richfield Co. and Phillips Petroleum Co. signed a $ 30 
million cooperative agreement to explore for coal-bed methane, a natural gas 
trapped in water deposits in coal seams. General Motors Corp. signed an 
agreement June 22 to make pickup trucks and sport-utility vehicles here.	MAIN
One Washington-area company, Bethesda-based Chindex International Inc., held a 
signing ceremony attended by Commerce Secretary William Daley to mark issuance 
of an Export-Import Bank guarantee of a $ 15 million loan that will enable 
Chindex to import medical equipment here.	MAIN
The Chindex deal is the first Chinese-American joint venture in hospitals and 
today marked the formal opening of the facility, although it started treating 
patients some months ago. "It will serve as a model for China's developing 
health-care system, and it will serve as a showcase for American high-tech 
medical equipment and American-style patient-centered care," Daley said.	VERB
Chindex will import equipment including Acuson color Doppler ultrasound 
scanners; Lunar bone densitometers; PLC Medical Systems lasers used for heart 
surgery; Trex Medical/XRE Division cardiac-intervention imaging systems; and 
Johnson & Johnson ortho-diagnostic clinical laboratory equipment.	EXPE

Monica S. Lewinsky has agreed to provide independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr
with information about her book purchases, resolving a First Amendment dispute
between Starr and the Dupont Circle bookstore Kramerbooks.	MAIN
"We've accomplished what we set out to do, which is protect the rights of
privacy of our customers," said Bill Kramer, co-owner of the popular store and
cafe.	VERB
The former White House intern, the central figure in Starr's investigation of
President Clinton, has previously made cooperative gestures toward Starr,
including allowing her apartment to be searched and providing handwriting
samples.	PREV
In late March, Starr subpoenaed Kramerbooks and the Georgetown outlet of the
Barnes & Noble chain, asking for details about at least 16 purchases made by
Lewinsky. The former intern reportedly told her one-time friend Linda R. Tripp
that she gave Clinton the phone-sex novel "Vox," and Starr's team was seeking to
corroborate that statement.	CIRC
On April 6, Lewinsky lawyer Nathaniel H. Speights told U.S. District Court Judge
Norma Holloway Johnson that his client would be willing to give the information
to Starr.	CIRC
"In March, April, May, it was crystal clear that Lewinsky's position was the
same: She was willing to give the information," said Kramerbooks lawyer Carol
O'Riordan. "And it was crystal clear to my co-counsel and myself that [Starr]
was refusing to go and ask for it."	VERB
Johnson ruled in early April that Starr had to show a "compelling need" for the
information before he violated the First Amendment rights of Lewinsky and the
bookstores. This led to the Barnes & Noble subpoena being dropped and the
Kramerbooks subpoena narrowed. Kramer had been planning an appeal when
yesterday's deal was worked out.	PREV
"This agreement allows us to avoid the time and expense of the appeal," Kramer
said.	VERB
Kramerbooks' challenge to Starr drew support from a wide range of retailing,
publishing and free speech sources. Yesterday, those groups pronounced
themselves pleased with the case's resolution.	VERB
"From the beginning we believed the subpoena was an example of gross
prosecutorial overreaching that seriously threatened core First Amendment
values," said Louis Bograd of the American Civil Liberties Union.	VERB
"We've established an important precedent that will stop prosecutors from
fishing around in bookstore records just because they want to," said Chris
Finan, president of the American Booksellers Foundation for Free Expression.	VERB
If Kramerbooks' appeal had gone forward, there was some doubt it would have won.
"Establishing a legal basis for bookstores' privilege would have been a tough
sell," said Robert O'Neil, a University of Virginia law professor. He noted that
there was no constitutional protection for journalists seeking to withhold
identity of sources.	VERB
Still, O'Neil said, "the next time a grand jury or a prosecutor seeks to compel
such information from a bookseller, he can look back and cite this as a time
when the customer turned out not only to be the appropriate source for the
information, but an entirely adequate one."	VERB
In another legal battle over evidence, the Justice Department filed the final
brief in its effort to persuade the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit
to stop Starr from bringing Secret Service officers before a grand jury. The
Justice Department is appealing a lower court ruling that the Secret Service
enjoys no legal right of confidentiality.	MAIN

Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the investment holding company controlled by
billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett, yesterday agreed to pay $ 22 billion in
stock for General Re Corp., the largest reinsurer in the nation.	MAIN
The purchase of Gen Re would broaden Buffett's reach in the insurance industry
and add about $ 24 billion to Berkshire's existing holdings of investment
securities, valued at $ 46 billion at year-end 1997. For Gen Re, the deal
affords access to a huge pool of capital and income from its parent that will
allow it to maintain more stable earnings and have greater discretion over how
to invest its excess cash.	CONS
Buffett said the companies will have a net worth of $ 56 billion, greater than
any U.S. company and second only to Royal Dutch/Shell Group among global
companies.	EVAL
Buffett said Gen Re will operate as an independent unit of Berkshire Hathaway.
Ron Ferguson, Gen Re's chief executive, will join the Berkshire board.	VERB
In addition to its size, the deal is noteworthy because Buffett is using
Berkshire Hathaway stock as currency, which he prefers to avoid.	EVAL
Under terms of the agreement, General Re shareholders can choose either 0.0035
shares of Berkshire's Class A shares, or 0.105 of the Class B shares for each
share of Stamford, Conn.-based Gen Re. Berkshire Hathaway valued the deal at $
22 billion, based on Thursday's closing prices, which is approximately $ 276.50
for each share of Gen Re. That's a premium of 23 percent to Gen Re's Thursday
close of $ 224.125 on the New York Stock Exchange.	MAIN
"We would rather use cash but most of the time sellers don't let us do it,"
Buffett said at a news conference. That's because cash deals usually mean the
seller must pay taxes, whereas all-stock transactions are commonly tax-free.	VERB
Even though Buffett has recently made huge forays into the markets for silver
and government bonds, he suggested that his latest move should not be read as
any kind of market signal. And he added that although he does not like to make
his investments using Berkshire Hathaway stock, his latest deal should not be
read as any comment on whether he thinks Berkshire Hathaway's stock is at a
peak.	VERB
"It is not a market call," Buffett said.	VERB
Buffett, who owns huge stakes in such well-known companies as American Express
Co. and Coca-Cola Co. as well as The Washington Post Co., has long fancied the
insurance industry for its "float" -- the excess money held against future
claims but which can be invested to earn current income.	EVAL
Two years ago, Buffett bought out minority shareholders in Geico Corp. of Chevy
Chase, and he also has a subsidiary, National Indemnity, that is a player in the
commercial insurance market.	PREV
Berkshire Hathaway's reinsurance division also has been a specialty player in
the reinsurance market; its huge supply of capital has allowed it to underwrite
what are termed "catastrophic" risks, such as insurance against natural
disasters.	CIRC
But General Re is considered the crown jewel of the reinsurance industry and has
itself been seen as an industry consolidator.	EVAL
In 1994, it acquired majority
control in Cologne Re of Germany.	HIST
The purchase of Gen Re also appears to fit the criteria that Buffett has set
down over the years for acquisitions: The companies must be simple, management
must be in place, and the businesses must generate good returns with minimal
debt. Buffett also said he favors acquisitions of at least $ 5 billion in value.	EVAL
Over the years, Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway has been one of the best performing
stocks, but its high price and thin trading have kept it out of the reach of
many investors.	CIRC
Yesterday, Buffett said the purchase of Gen Re would add
liquidity to Berkshire stock and draw more interest from the institutional
investment community.	CONS
Reinsurers insure insurance companies, in essence protecting the primary
carriers against losses greater than they can stomach themselves. While the
reinsurance market has largely been flat of late, those companies who are in it
have been consolidating as the size of the risks to be covered has gotten
larger.	EVAL
By joining forces with Berkshire, General Re will greatly expand its capital
surplus -- the money that stands behind any future claims -- and be able to
underwrite even larger risks. Most important, it will be able to hold on to more
of the risk and will not have to "lay off" portions of risks that are too big
for any one company to handle.
	CONS

Democratic contributor Johnny Chung has told Justice Department investigators
that top Democratic National Committee officials knowingly solicited and
accepted improper donations from him, according to sources familiar with his
account.	MAIN
Chung, as part of a plea bargain deal with the department, has claimed that
then-DNC finance director Richard Sullivan personally asked him for a $ 125,000
donation in April 1995, the sources said. Sullivan took the money despite having
previously voiced suspicions that Chung was acting as a conduit for illegal
contributions from Chinese business executives, they added.	MAIN
Sullivan's lawyer said he denies Chung's account of their dealings.	VERB
Chung's accusations come as the Justice Department's 19-month investigation of
1996 campaign fund-raising enters what law enforcement sources characterized as
a new phase. Having brought charges this spring against four contributors who
allegedly funneled illegal foreign funds to Democrats, the task force handling
the campaign probe is now determining whether there is sufficient evidence to
charge any of the DNC officials or Clinton-Gore campaign operatives who accepted
the money.	CIRC
"The task force is moving to another stage that is going to involve people in
responsible positions in campaign fund-raising and whether those people should
be charged," an official close to the investigation said.	VERB
But Chung's allegations have not persuaded investigators to designate Sullivan
or any other DNC official as a target of the probe, a formal step that can be a
prelude to an indictment, and the task force still hopes that other witnesses
will agree to cooperate, including possibly Sullivan himself, according to
sources close to the inquiry.	CONS
Justice Department officials emphasized that there is a considerable distance
between a witness's allegation that an individual should have known an action
was wrong and establishing criminal intent to support an indictment.	EVAL
Chung, a Los Angeles businessman, became the task force's first major
cooperating witness in March as part of an agreement in which he pleaded guilty
to orchestrating an illegal "straw donor" scheme to give money to the 1996
Clinton-Gore reelection campaign. Chung provided the task force with its first
explicit account of foreign funds coming into the 1996 campaign, telling
investigators that a Chinese aerospace executive gave him $ 300,000 for
political contributions.	CIRC
"Johnny Chung is fully cooperating with the entire probe and that includes
providing details of his interaction with DNC officials, including Richard
Sullivan, his primary point of contact there," said Brian Sun, Chung's attorney.	VERB
Overall, the DNC took $ 366,000 from Chung in 1995 and 1996. All of that money
was eventually returned after the election when the committee determined it had
"insufficient information" about its origins.	PREV
Chung, who visited the White House at least 49 times, is perhaps best known for
an incident that was the subject of extensive congressional testimony in which
he offered to make a $ 50,000 contribution to the DNC if he could bring five
Chinese businessmen to a March 11, 1995, presidential radio address. Sullivan
has testified that he rejected the offer. Instead, Chung sought help from aides
to Hillary Rodham Clinton in gaining access to the radio address and the DNC
eventually accepted the money.	PREV
In congressional testimony last summer, Sullivan said he had grown suspicious
because "Johnny had a very nervous kind of an outward, aggressive personality,"
and that he eventually concluded that the money Chung was offering to contribute
was not his own but came from the Chinese business executives.	PREV
Sullivan's attorney, Bob Bauer, said, "Richard's testimony, which is fully
corroborated, is clear that he was concerned with the way Chung operated and on
that basis he would not accept Chung's offer of money as the price of admission
to a presidential radio address or for any number of other initiatives that
Chung was interested in."	VERB
According to Chung, however, Sullivan contacted Chung less than a month later
and solicited $ 125,000 from him for an April 8, 1995, fund-raiser at the home
of director Steven Spielberg. Sullivan has denied to investigators that he asked
Chung for the donation, although he has acknowledged that he was involved in
accepting the funds at the DNC, according to sources familiar with the inquiry.	MAIN
Chung has also told Justice Department investigators, the sources said, that DNC
and Clinton-Gore officials were aware that he was bringing foreign guests to a
September 1995 Los Angeles fund-raising dinner when he arrived with an entourage
of 20 people.	CIRC
At the event, campaign officials rejected Chung's $ 20,000 check because
contributions to the dinner were subject to a legal limit of $ 1,000 per person.
The following day Chung had 20 friends and employees write individual $ 1,000
checks, which were accepted by the campaign. Chung later reimbursed the
check-writers in what he acknowledged in his guilty plea was an illegal scheme
to evade federal contribution limits.	MAIN
"Chung claims it was transparent on that occasion and virtually every other that
he was producing contributions on behalf of foreign nationals who could not
legally give to political campaigns," said a source familiar with Chung's
statements to investigators.	VERB
With the task force's chief prosecutor, Chuck LaBella, preparing to leave his
post this summer, Justice Department officials expect that decisions will be
made in coming weeks on whether to press charges against DNC and Clinton-Gore
officials who accepted illegal foreign funds.	CONS

Turkey sent six F-16 fighter jets to northern Cyprus today in response to
Greece's brief deployment of fighter jets to southern Cyprus, and warned Athens
against attempting a military buildup on the divided island.	MAIN
As the F-16 deployment was announced, Foreign Minister Ismail Cem said the
Turkish government will take "all necessary measures" against any Greek plans
for aggression against Turkey.	VERB
While Greece and the Greek-Cypriot government condemned the move, Turkish Prime
Minister Mesut Yilmaz, who was in Romania on an official visit, said the
possibility of war between Turkey and Greece over Cyprus "largely depends on the
Greek-Cypriot attitude."	VERB
The Turkish fighters flew into the Gecitkale Air Base in northern Cyprus two
days after four Greek F-16s and a C-130 transport plane landed at the
Greek-Cypriot Paphos Air Base for a brief stopover, the first known landings of
Greek aircraft at the base since its completion in January. Three of the six
Turkish jets reportedly returned to their base near Ankara later today.	MAIN
Greek-Cypriot Defense Minister Yiannakis Omirou told reporters the Greek
aircraft stopover sent a "specific political message. That the [Greek-Greek
Cypriot] common defense doctrine will exist and continue to develop so long as
there is Turkish expansionism."	VERB
Turkey condemned the Greek move, calling it an "extremely grave and provocative
development." Cem accused Athens of developing a strategy to use Cyprus as a
springboard in the event of an attack on Turkey.	VERB
Under a 1993 defense pact between the internationally recognized Greek-Cypriot
government and Greece, Athens pledged military support to the Greek Cypriots in
the event hostilities break out on the Mediterranean island.	PREV
Turkey, which has 30,000 troops in northern Cyprus, has its own defense pact
with the self-proclaimed Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus -- a nation
recognized only by Ankara -- under which Turkey pledges responsibility for the
security of the Turkish-Cypriot sector.	CIRC
Britain, which maintains military bases on Cyprus, called for restraint in the
wake of the fighter-jet deployments, and a Turkish Foreign Ministry spokesman in
turn said Ankara would ask Britain to help reduce tension on the island. Britain
is Cyprus's former colonial ruler and is named as a guarantor power, along with
Turkey and Greece, under the 1960 Cypriot constitution.	VERB
Greek-Turkish friction over Cyprus has heightened over the past 1 1/2 years,
triggering concern in Washington that the heavily militarized island could
become a flash point for armed conflict between the NATO allies.	CIRC
Cyprus has been divided since 1974, when Turkey invaded the northern third of
the island to support the Turkish-Cypriot minority after a Greek-backed coup.	HIST
This week's confrontation over the use of the Greek air base comes amid rising
tension over the expected delivery of a Russian S-300 ground-to-air missile
defense system to southern Cyprus later this year. Ankara has threatened to use
force to prevent the deployment of the missile system.	nan
Efforts by the United States and Europe to defuse tension and broker a
settlement on Cyprus were set back after the European Union decided last
December to begin membership negotiations with the Greek-Cypriot government and
at the same time left Turkey off its short list of candidates.	PREV
In the wake of those decisions, Ankara froze political dialogue with the EU and
Ankara, and the Turkish-Cypriot leadership hardened their position regarding
Cyprus settlement talks. Turkish-Cypriot leader Rauf Denktash insists that the
talks be carried out on a state-to-state basis -- which would force official
recognition of the Turkish-Cypriot entity by the south -- and that President
Glafcos Clerides withdraw the Cypriot EU membership application.	PREV
Ankara welcomed "relative progress" in Turkish-EU ties made at this week's
European summit at Cardiff, Wales, but stopped short of calling for a resumption
of political dialogue.	CIRC
Britain, which holds the EU presidency, hailed the Cardiff meeting as a positive
step toward rapprochement with Ankara, saying that Turkey's membership candidacy
was clearly acknowledged.	VERB
But a Turkish Foreign Ministry statement criticized the Cardiff meeting for
reiterating what Ankara considers to be unacceptable EU conditions for Turkey's
membership to advance. Those conditions are that Turkey improves its human
rights record and makes progress on solving its disputes with Greece, including
Aegean territorial disputes as well as the tension over Cyprus.	VERB
Ankara is also seeking the release of EU financial aid for Ankara called for
under a 1996 customs union agreement but which has been held up by Greece.	MAIN
Greek Prime Minister Costas Simitas said he rebuffed a telephone appeal from
President Clinton during the Cardiff summit to soften the Greek stance toward
Turkey. "I told President Clinton that this was not possible," he said.	VERB
The United States, concerned that the EU snub could drive Turkey away from the
West and increase the risk of conflict in the Aegean, has stepped up diplomatic
efforts aimed at improving Turkish-EU relations.	CONS
Richard Holbrooke, the Clinton administration's special envoy to Cyprus and
newly nominated ambassador to the United Nations, will visit Athens on Monday,
State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said in Washington today.	CONS

The American Medical Association voted yesterday to install the heir apparent as 
its president-elect, rejecting a strong, upstart challenge by a District doctor 
who argued that the nation's largest physicians' group needs stronger ethics and 
new leadership.	LEAD
In electing Thomas R. Reardon, an Oregon general practitioner who had been the 
chairman of its board, members signified they did not hold him responsible for a 
costly gaffe last year, when the group agreed to endorse a line of Sunbeam Corp. 
health care products. Reardon had become chairman just before the signing of the 
Sunbeam deal, which would have funneled millions of dollars to the AMA but 
violated its prohibition against letting its name be used for commercial 
purposes.	CIRC
Throughout the year and at the association's annual meeting in Chicago this 
week, the episode heightened dissent within the organization, the 
largest-spending lobbying group in the country, which already has been weakened 
by a substantial decline in membership and the medical profession's diminished 
clout in an era of managed care.	CONS
Reardon said yesterday that his election is evidence that physicians are eager 
to put last year's troubles behind them.	VERB
In an interview, Reardon said he plans to focus on trying to persuade Congress 
to enact legislation to give doctors and patients more power against health 
maintenance organizations and other types of managed care. He said the AMA also 
will emphasize a patient-safety initiative, an effort to teach doctors to 
provide better help to dying patients and their families, and an attempt to make 
sure the federal government does not punish doctors for simple billing mistakes 
in its efforts to crack down on Medicare fraud.	VERB
Reardon said he will work to rebuild AMA membership, which has slipped to the 
point that less than 40 percent of the nation's doctors now belong.	VERB
But Raymond Scalettar, the Washington rheumatologist who announced that he would 
oppose Reardon just two weeks ago, said yesterday's 270 to 196 vote reflects a 
reservoir of discontent within the organization. "It is clearly a message . . . 
that the leadership of the American Medical Association has to be really on its 
toes for the future," said Scalettar, who was the AMA's board chairman five 
years ago.	VERB
Scalettar's candidacy marked the first time in 25 years that someone decided at 
the last minute to mount an insurgent challenge to what usually is a 
well-choreographed succession to the presidency of the 295,000-member 
organization. Reardon now becomes the president-elect, and will begin a one-year 
term as president next year. Yesterday, Nancy Dickey of Texas became the AMA's 
first female president.	MAIN
Many doctors at this week's meetings said they think the organization needs to 
move beyond the recent controversy.	VERB
"The physicians back home aren't interested in Sunbeam," said Robert Weierman, 
an orthopedic surgeon from South Orange, N.J., who is one of the AMA's 495 
voting delegates. "Reimbursement problems and the slowdown in payments are the 
main issues where I come from."	VERB
But others said the Sunbeam matter will continue to haunt the association, 
particularly since the corporation has sued the AMA for $ 20 million. "The 
financial cost to the AMA is the least of it," one physician said at a forum on 
the matter. "The real cost is loss of prestige, the embarrassment we had, the 
realization our ship was not on course.'	VERB

AT&T Corp. is selling its electronic paging business to Alexandria-based paging
giant Metrocall Inc. for $ 205 million in stock and cash, company sources said
last night.	MAIN
The move marks AT&T's exit from the paging business, freeing the company to
focus its wireless activities on its more profitable cellular telephone
business. It also would help, albeit in a small way, to provide the company with
some of the cash it needs to buy cable giant Tele-Communications Inc.	EVAL
The deal is the latest in a string of acquisitions for Metrocall, the nation's
second-largest paging company with 4.1 million subscribers. Metrocall employs
3,000 people, including 605 in the Washington area.	CIRC
Metrocall will pay $ 110 million in cash and $ 95 million in preferred shares
for AT&T's paging services, Metrocall officials said.	MAIN
William L. Collins III, president and chief executive of Metrocall, said the two
companies were in talks last fall, but Metrocall ended discussions because
AT&T's price was too high.	PREV
As part of the deal, Metrocall gets a nationwide two-way paging license for
which AT&T paid $ 80 million at a federal auction in 1994, though AT&T never
developed the two-way paging service. Metrocall also gets a five-year exclusive
agreement to sell its paging products in AT&T Wireless retail stores under its
own brand name.	MAIN
"AT&T is pleased that the advanced messaging division will be an important part
of Metrocall's overall strategy," said Dan Sommers, AT&T's chief financial
officer.	VERB
AT&T acquired its advanced messaging division, which employees 1,000 people, as
part of its $ 11.5 billion purchase of McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. in
1995.	PREV
The paging deal furthers an acquisition frenzy that has characterized the
industry over the past several years. Large paging companies, seeking to reduce
costs and enhance profitability, typically buy out smaller ones and take on
their customers.	EVAL
Metrocall has led that trend, making purchases of a half-dozen paging companies
in the past few years, including rival ProNet Inc. last year.	CIRC
Analysts expressed concern that AT&T would have to spend too much
money to upgrade TCI's cable systems to make them capable of handling telephone
and Internet service.	EXPE
Selling off AT&T's paging unit is one of a series of moves made by the company's
new chairman, C. Michael Armstrong, to streamline the nation's largest phone
company and move it into new profit areas. AT&T shares took a beating last week
after the company announced plans to buy TCI for $ 48 billion in stock and
assumed debt	CIRC
With 4.1 million subscribers as of March 31, Metrocall ranks behind Paging
Network of Plano, Tex., among the nation's largest paging companies. With 1.2
million subscribers, AT&T's paging operations would rank 10th in the nation if
it were a stand-alone operation.	EVAL
Bulking up has been a costly strategy for Metrocall, however. The company
reported a net loss of $ 52.5 million in 1997 and lost $ 28.2 million its first
quarter of 1998, which was more than double the loss posted a year earlier.
Company officials attributed the losses to the cost of Metrocall's acquisition
strategy. The company's sales grew 59 percent in the first quarter, to $ 96.3
million.	EVAL
Still, the AT&T deal might not be enough to maintain Metrocall's No. 2 position
for long. Arch Communications Group Inc., the third largest paging company with
4 million subscribers, recently announced that it was in talks to buy rival
MobileMedia Corp., which filed for bankruptcy protection more than a year ago.
MobileMedia is the fourth-largest company, with 3.3 million customers.	EVAL

Walt Disney Co. is negotiating to buy WJLA (Channel 7) in Washington and seven 
other TV stations across the country owned by broadcasting and banking magnate 
Joe L. Allbritton, sources said yesterday.	LEAD
If the negotiations are successful, Disney-owned ABC would take over management 
of WJLA, the local ABC affiliate, and establish it as the Washington base for 
the network, which already owns stations in 10 other major cities including New 
York, Chicago and Los Angeles. Allbritton Communications' stations could fetch $ 
750 million to $ 900 million, according to rough valuations by industry sources.	CONS
"Yeah, we're interested," said an ABC executive who did not want to be 
identified. The executive said ABC does not publicly discuss possible 
acquisitions.	VERB
Disney, like other broadcasting networks, is eager to buy local stations, which 
are the most profitable part of the television business. The ABC network is 
ailing and anticipates losses this year, though such losses are more than offset 
by strong profits of the local stations ABC owns and operates. Allbritton's TV 
empire is attractive because it is one of the few remaining groups of ABC 
affiliates that Disney could purchase.	EVAL
Federal deregulation of the broadcasting business in 1996 raised limits on the 
number of stations that a single company can own. It set off a buying frenzy, 
which has driven the price of television stations to record levels.	HIST
Allbritton, 72, owns Allbritton Communications Corp. and has a controlling 
interest in Riggs National Corp. of Washington, the parent company of Riggs 
Bank. He has been approached repeatedly about selling the bank, but has rejected 
the offers.	CIRC
Price could be the crucial factor in negotiations for the television stations. 
Both Disney and Allbritton are known as hard bargainers.	EVAL
Allbritton and his son, Robert, 28, chief operating officer of Allbritton 
Communications, were in London yesterday for the annual shareholders meeting of 
Riggs AP Bank, a British affiliate of Riggs National Bank, and could not be 
reached for comment.	CIRC
Jerald Fritz, general counsel of Allbritton Communications, said the company 
does not comment on rumors or media reports.	VERB
Through a separate company, Allbritton also owns Newschannel 8, the Washington 
all-news cable channel. Industry sources said Newschannel 8, a six-year-old 
local station that has yet to turn a profit, is included in the package Disney 
is negotiating to buy.	VERB
Allbritton Communications owns six other ABC affiliates, in Lynchburg, Va.; 
Tulsa, Okla.; Harrisburg, Pa.; Charleston, S.C.; Tuscaloosa, Ala.; and Little 
Rock. It owns a low-power station in Alabama and manages another station that 
serves the Tuscaloosa-Birmingham market.	CIRC
WJLA -- which stands for Joe L. Allbritton -- is the big prize in Allbritton's 
empire, accounting for half the $ 173 million in revenue the company reported 
last year. The stations generated almost $ 62.8 million in operating cash flow 
last year, and reported a loss of $ 3 million for the six months ended March 31.	PREV
Industry analysts say cash flow is a better measure of a TV station's 
performance than profits and is the factor used to determine prices. Stations 
recently have been selling for 12 to 15 times annual cash flow, which would 
place the value of Allbritton Communications' stations in the $ 750 million to $ 
900 million range.	EVAL
Washington has been a relatively poor market for ABC, primarily because WJLA's 
lagging local newscast has had poor ratings, which have translated into smaller 
audiences and advertising rates for the network's shows. ABC counts on local 
news as a "lead-in" for its "World News Tonight With Peter Jennings" and other 
programming.	CIRC
WJLA's 5 p.m. newscast, anchored by Paul Berry and Kathleen Mathews, finished 
third in the ratings during the May "sweeps," despite being preceded by Oprah 
Winfrey's hugely popular talk show. Its 6 p.m. news also ranked third, behind 
WRC (Channel 4) and WUSA (Channel 9), and was tied for second at 11 p.m. with 
WUSA, although both were a distant second to WRC at that hour.	PREV
If it purchases the station, ABC would likely beef up WJLA's local news 
operation to bolster ratings for the network news.	EXPE
ABC owns stations in 10 cities, covering about 25 percent of the nation's 
population, leaving it well below the federal ownership limit of 35 percent of 
the population.	CIRC

Ten days before President Clinton's departure for China, thousands of protesters
gathered on the Capitol lawn yesterday afternoon on the National Day of Action
for a Free Tibet.	MAIN
It was a sunny afternoon of chants, prayers and celebrity-gawking. Speeches from
exiled Tibetan leaders, activists and members of Congress were interspersed with
musical acts.	MAIN
Speakers representing a wide political spectrum called upon the president to
keep human rights in Tibet a priority as he meets with Chinese government
officials later this month and to pressure the Chinese to open negotiations with
the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan leader.	MAIN
"If Israel can meet with Palestine and Britain can meet with [Irish nationalist]
Gerry Adams, why can't China meet with the Dalai Lama?" asked John Ackerly,
president of the International Campaign to Free Tibet. 	VERB
Clinton's nine-day,
five-city tour is the first U.S. presidential visit to China since the 1989
Tiananmen Square massacre.	CIRC
The young crowd at yesterday's rally mirrored the 120,000 concertgoers who had
attended the weekend's two-day Tibetan Freedom Concert, a benefit held by the
Milarepa Fund to raise awareness about Tibet. One large pink banner unfurled on
the marble steps of the Capitol read "Party for your right to fight." Protesters
were adorned with brightly colored Tibetan flags, nose rings and extensive
tattoos. Performances by members of R.E.M., Thom Yorke of Radiohead, David
Crosby with Sean Lennon, and Perry Farrell of Jane's Addiction fueled the crowd.	MAIN
"I haven't see a movement of college-age kids and older [people] since my days
in college. Then it was about the Vietnam War," said actor Richard Gere, a
longtime activist on Tibet.	VERB
Speakers delineated a variety of human rights abuses occurring in Tibet under
the Chinese government, including the torture of political prisoners, forced
sterilization and abortions and religious and cultural oppression. One major
concern of activists is the whereabouts of the Panchan Lama, a 9-year-old
considered to be the youngest political prisoner in the world. The Panchan Lama
disappeared in May 1995 with his parents.	MAIN
P.J. Crowley, a White House spokesperson, said that the administration "strongly
supports the protection of Tibet's unique cultural, religious and linguistic
heritage. We believe that resumption of a dialogue between Beijing and the Dalai
Lama's representative is an essential step to achieve this goal and to assure
greater protection of human rights in Tibet."	VERB
The Chinese Foreign Ministry issued a statement on Tibet that said in part: "We
are firmly opposed to activities, in whatever name or under whatever pretext
which support the Dalai Lama's political maneuvers to split Tibet from China."	VERB
The rally drew protesters from across the continent. Za Choeje Rinpoche, a
Tibetan monk, came with members of his Atlanta monastery. Kirsten Johnson, 27,
of Victoria, British Columbia, organized a cross-country bus trip for 40 people
from Seattle to Washington. At rest stops, they held Tibetan information
sessions and asked people to sign banners in support of a free Tibet.	VERB
"Some people didn't know what Tibet was, especially in the Midwest," Johnson
said.	VERB
In addition to the longtime Tibetan activists, the rally also attracted the
newly informed and curious. Kristina Siegloch, 18, of the District, learned
about the rally through the speeches and handouts at the concert. Her class at
the German School in Potomac decided to hold the traditional "Senior Skip Day"
yesterday to coincide with the demonstration. "It made more sense to go to the
rally instead of meeting at Starbucks," Siegloch said. "It's important that
Clinton go to China knowing that Tibet is an issue that is important to America
and to American youth."	VERB

More than 1,000 people, including a few aging resistance fighters, gathered at
the University of East Timor today in this Indonesian-occupied territory for a
demonstration that was more remarkable for what did not happen.	LEAD
Unlike in the past, when Indonesia was ruled by former president Suharto,
security forces, for the second time this week, did not harass protesters.
Soldiers were nowhere to be seen around the campus as the demonstrators spoke
over loudspeakers about their desire for independence.	MAIN
"Viva!" they shouted, punching their fists into the air. They gathered on the
back lawn of the campus and some sat on the school's roof, unfurling banners
calling for the release of jailed resistance leader Jose Alexandre 'Xanana'
Gusmao, or proclaiming "Death or independence!"	MAIN
"This is a golden chance for us," said Jovensio Martinez, 37, who spent nearly
seven years in prison after a 1991 street demonstration during which security
forces shot and killed at least 50 protesters.	VERB
"It's the first chance we get to express our feelings on how to solve our
problems and decide our political future," he said. "We have been crushed down
for 23 years."	VERB
Indonesia invaded East Timor in 1975 and annexed it the following year. The
United Nations still recognizes Portugal, East Timor's former colonial ruler, as
the territory's administrative authority.	PREV
In an interview today with the Japanese news service Kyodo, President B.J.
Habibie rejected independence for East Timor. "The integration of East Timor was
accomplished more than 20 years ago with the will of the people themselves, and
there is no going back now," he said.	VERB
He had previously suggested granting the territory "special status" but the
Timorese rejected the idea. The students and most of the general population want
a referendum to determine the region's future.	CIRC
Student protests ushered the fall of Suharto, who stepped down last month after
32 years in power, but that was not until at least four student demonstrators
were slain by security forces. Massive rioting followed, prompting some of
Suharto's key allies, including members of the military, to abandon him.	CIRC
But it is the military here that wields control, enjoying a certain amount of
autonomy from the Indonesian government. 	EVAL
The governor and local military
commanders have already warned against demonstrations. Soldiers have refrained
from trying to prevent campus protests here, but they broke up a demonstration
Friday by East Timorese at the Foreign Ministry in Jakarta, the Indonesian
capital.	PREV
It is unclear whether the military is taking a softer line in light of the new
political reform era in Indonesia, or is just trying to sort itself out after
Suharto's fall and the deaths of 12 senior regional military commanders in a
helicopter crash this month.	EVAL
The United States suspended most of its military assistance to Indonesia after
the 1991 killings in Dili, but nonetheless East Timor hardly registers on the
agenda in Jakarta unless foreign governments bring up the issue.	PREV
The climate of fear in East Timor goes much deeper than in Indonesia. Nearly
every other adult in Dili has been detained or tortured, or knows someone who
has been, during the past 23 years of Indonesian rule.	EVAL
Reports from Lisbon said that authorities today detained prominent activist M'a
Huno, who had been a commander of separatist forces.	CIRC
The military has been trying to root out elements or supporters of the Fretilin
independence movement, which has been waging an armed struggle against the
Indonesian occupation. Scattered pockets of resistance remain, but the rebellion
has lost much of its steam.	EVAL
Domingos Maria Alvez, 67, was one of East Timor's first resistance fighters and
in the 1970s was detained for eight months, tied up in a cave part of the time.
Alvez attended today's demonstration with his grandson and said he has been
waiting years for the chance to speak out.	PREV
"I have hope when I see these young people now," he said. "When I see them
struggling, it gives meaning to my struggle before. I'm already old, but my
dream would be fulfilled to see the new generation liberated from the
oppressors."	VERB
Analysts say the next few weeks should indicate how far the student movement in
East Timor will go, but it appears from today's demonstration that it is
unlikely the protesters will try to march in the streets or take over
parliament, as students tried to do in Jakarta.	EXPE
Panic almost erupted during
today's protest when a truck of soldiers merely drove by. The demonstration was
held far out of sight of the main road to lessen the chances of a confrontation.	MAIN

Hundreds of Nigerians held scattered protests today in Lagos to demand an end to
military rule, but troops and police dispersed them with tear gas and warning
shots, witnesses and news reports said.	MAIN
The Lagos-based leadership of Nigeria's democracy movement had called for
demonstrations today to press Nigeria's new leader, Gen. Abdulsalam Abubakar, to
quickly end Nigeria's 15 straight years of military rule by handing power to a
transitional government under jailed politician Moshood Abiola.	MAIN
The protest marked the fifth anniversary of Abiola's apparent victory in a
presidential election that was subsequently scuttled by the military.	EVAL
But relatively few Nigerians responded to the call, underscoring that, while the
military government is deeply unpopular, few Nigerians are ready to actively
confront it.	EVAL
Democracy activists said protests were held today outside Lagos,
but there was no independent report of them.	CIRC
Many Nigerians are consumed by their daily struggle for survival amid the
country's economic collapse. And some activists and Nigerian journalists have
said many people want to give Abubakar more time to respond to the popular
demand for civilian rule.	EVAL
Abubakar was named head of state Monday night after his predecessor, Gen. Sani
Abacha, died, reportedly of a heart attack. Abacha had promised a handover to
civilian rule but maneuvered himself into position as the only legal candidate
in presidential elections scheduled for Aug. 1.	CIRC
Nigerians have overwhelmingly rejected the Abacha transition plan, but Abubakar,
upon taking power, declared he would complete it. The democracy movement
contends that the Abacha process can only be a front for continued military
rule.	PREV
The government had banned today's protests, and police and troops heavily
deployed forces around Lagos to prevent them.	CIRC
At a square in the Yaba district,
an estimated 200 people, mostly young men, gathered. Many carried
anti-government placards and leaflets, according to news agencies and Nigerian
journalists.	MAIN
As pro-democracy leaders headed by human rights lawyer Gani Fawehinmi arrived to
begin a rally, police swept into the square, firing tear gas canisters and
warning shots into the air. No deaths or injuries were immediately reported.	MAIN
People fled, and Fawehinmi collapsed from the tear gas and was taken away by
police. His spokesman in the United States, Lanre Banjo, said tonight that
police had charged Fawehinmi with inciting the public against the government and
had released him after a few hours.	CONS
In all, Banjo said, the protest's organizing group, the Joint Action Committee
of Nigeria, was aware of about 40 people who had been arrested.	CONS
Police also took to the streets in Ibadan, but the city, Nigeria's
second-largest, remained calm, the BBC reported. Anti-government riots in Ibadan
left seven dead last month.	CONS
Lagos and Ibadan are the main cities of Nigeria's ethnic Yorubas, who are the
country's most alienated group. Yorubas say they are denied a fair share of
political power by northern ethnic groups -- including Hausas and Fulanis --
that have dominated the military and the government since Nigeria's independence
from Britain in 1960.	CIRC
Today's protest underscored that Nigeria has suffered more or less continual
crisis and confrontation for five years.	EVAL
In 1993, the northern-dominated government of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, having
promised a return to civilian rule, held elections on June 12 for a civilian
president. But when the vote count showed Abiola, a southern Yoruba, crushing
his northern, Hausa-speaking opponent, Bashir Tofa, the government canceled the
vote, throwing the country into an uproar.	PREV
Babangida soon surrendered power to a military-backed civilian interim
government, which Abacha pushed aside after three months. A year later, he
jailed Abiola for insisting on his claim to power, and protests have continued
sporadically since then.	PREV

Internet related stocks soared today after the NBC television network and Compaq
Computer Corp. announced deals that will give them greater links to the global
computer network.	MAIN
NBC's decision to buy up to 60 percent of Cnet Inc.'s Snap online service, which
helps people find information on the Internet, sent Cnet's stock up by more than
a third.	CONS
Compaq, meanwhile, announced that its newest line of personal computers would
provide consumers with easy access to America Online Inc.'s computer online
service and to a personalized Web page run by Yahoo Inc.'s online search
service.	MAIN
The deals spurred a strong rally for a variety of Internet-related stocks, even
though the rest of the market closed mixed for the day.	CONS
Analysts said that investors were betting that other major computer and media
companies will be scrambling to snatch up other Internet savvy companies in the
coming months as the race to capture a share of the network's market
accelerates.	EXPE
"It was lackluster for the rest of the world. But for us, it was great," said
Alan Braverman, an Internet analyst for securities firm Credit Suisse First
Boston. "It's a validation."	VERB
Yahoo was among the leaders, rising $ 8.50 to $ 117.87 1/2 in part because
investors believe that its new ties to Compaq will help guarantee that it will
remain one of the Internet's central players for the foreseeable future.	CONS
Dulles-based America Online rose $ 3.87 1/2 to $ 88.62 1/2, a strong performance
helped by J.P. Morgan & Co.'s decision to give the company a "buy" rating and
set its 12-month price target at $ 110.	CONS
Infoseek Corp. rose $ 4 to $ 27.25, and Lycos Inc. rose $ 3.31 1/4 to $ 53.56
1/4 after it received a patent for its "spider" technology, another method for
searching the Internet's World Wide Web. Netscape Communications Corp., which
develops Web browser software, rose $ 1.37 1/2 to $ 24.18 3/4. Amazon.com, the
Internet bookseller, rose $ 5 to $ 51.25.	CONS
Meanwhile, Inktomi Corp., which runs an Internet search engine and makes
software to reduce Internet congestion, raised $ 40.6 million in a
larger-than-expected initial stock sale, according to Bloomberg News. The San
Mateo, Calif., company sold 2.3 million shares, an 11 percent stake, at $ 18
each, the top of the $ 16-to-$ 18 expected range set by lead underwriter Goldman
Sachs & Co.	CONS
Cnet stock rose $ 12.12 1/2 to $ 45.12 1/2.	CONS
In the Cnet deal, NBC agreed to pay $ 38 million for Snap, a World Wide Web site
that features such information as news, sports scores and entertainment listings
and helps computer users find information elsewhere. NBC also said it will pay $
26 million for a 5 percent share in Cnet, which operates a variety of other
Internet services.	MAIN
"It convinced investors [that] other large media companies, over time, will need
to follow suit," said Lise Buyer, director of Internet and new media research
for Deutsche Bank Securities Technology Group.	VERB
That would mean that firms such as Infoseek and Lycos, which already have a head
start, suddenly become more valuable because of today's deals, she said. "If
Compaq can do this sort of deal with Yahoo, why can't Hewlett-Packard follow
suit?" she said. "The Compaq deal is a big deal."	VERB

As Monica S. Lewinsky's new lawyers began laying the groundwork for renewed 
immunity negotiations with prosecutors, independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr 
yesterday prepared to bring two reluctant witnesses before the grand jury, 
according to people close to the investigation.	LEAD
White House communications adviser Sidney Blumenthal has been ordered to appear 
this afternoon, three days after President Clinton dropped the executive 
privilege claim that interrupted Blumenthal's previous appearance. Francis D. 
Carter, who as Lewinsky's first lawyer helped her draft an affidavit denying a 
sexual relationship with Clinton, also has been summoned to testify as early as 
today.	MAIN
While some lawyers involved in the case doubt that either has information 
central to the investigation into whether Clinton orchestrated an illegal 
coverup of an affair with Lewinsky, Starr had to fight repeated court battles to 
obtain their testimony. A federal judge rejected Clinton's assertion that 
executive privilege prevented Starr from asking Blumenthal about certain White 
House conversations and likewise dismissed Carter's claim of attorney-client 
privilege. An appeal in Carter's case was unsuccessful, sources said.	PREV
"I intend to answer all the questions put to me completely and truthfully," 
Blumenthal said yesterday.	VERB
Two other privilege battles will be taken up today when the Supreme Court meets 
privately to discuss whether to grant Starr's request for emergency 
consideration of whether he can question White House lawyers and Secret Service 
officers.	CIRC
Starr has argued that a speedy resolution to his probe is so vital to the 
national interest that the justices should take the rare step of bypassing the 
appeals court and hear both disputes immediately before its summer break. The 
White House contends that the attorney-client issue, at least, should go through 
the normal process.	VERB
To grant such an expedited appeal, it would take the votes of five of the nine 
justices, instead of the usual four. Many lawyers suggested the court was 
unlikely to short-circuit the process, especially since Clinton on Monday 
dropped the executive privilege claim that once raised a constitutional issue. 
The justices did not even ask the Justice Department, which is representing the 
Secret Service, for its opinion about whether an expedited hearing was 
warranted.	CIRC
Another related issue landed at the high court yesterday as well. A consortium 
of news organizations, including The Washington Post, asked the court to 
overrule an appeals court decision barring public access to judicial hearings 
arising out of the Starr probe.	PREV
Most proceedings connected to the Lewinsky matter have been conducted under seal 
because they involve a secret grand jury investigation, although Chief U.S. 
District Judge Norma Holloway Johnson in recent weeks has released several 
redacted versions of transcripts, briefs and rulings.	CIRC
Even as the investigation marched on, Lewinsky's new legal team was settling in. 
A day after the former White House intern dismissed controversial lawyer William 
H. Ginsburg, the new attorneys spent the day behind closed doors educating 
themselves about the case, reading voluminous files and meeting with their 
client and the remaining member of her previous legal team, Nathaniel H. 
Speights.	MAIN
The new lawyers, Plato Cacheris and Jacob A. Stein, quietly visited Starr's 
office Tuesday for an introductory meeting with prosecutors. Starr sent a note 
welcoming them to the case, although they are hardly strangers to the 
independent counsel since all three travel in the same high-powered legal 
circles.	PREV
Their hiring was intended to resurrect long-abandoned talks with prosecutors 
about a deal that would shield Lewinsky from prosecution in exchange for her 
testimony.	EVAL
But for all of the anticipation surrounding the new team's abrupt entry, several 
lawyers close to the case cautioned that it still may be weeks before any 
agreement. Among other things, the new lawyers may push to hear the 20 hours of 
tapes in which Lewinsky was secretly recorded talking about having an affair 
with Clinton. Starr refused similar requests by Ginsburg. 

Staff writer Susan Schmidt contributed to this report.	VERB

Four days after police told him his political rights had been restored, the most
senior Chinese Communist Party official jailed for political reasons in two
decades launched a broadside tonight against the party for failing to undertake
significant political reform.	LEAD
In an interview, Bao Tong, who was arrested May 28, 1989 -- just days before
soldiers and tanks crushed student-led protests in Beijing's Tiananmen Square --
challenged Communist Party officials to prove their commitment to the rule of
law by letting him speak his mind after spending seven years in prison and two
more under restrictions.	MAIN
"My goal is to be a very good Chinese citizen, a Chinese citizen with the right
to speak his mind," said Bao, 65, who was chief of staff, speech writer and
senior political adviser for ousted Premier and Communist Party chief Zhao
Ziyang. "I am ready to take my ideas and speak out about them. Free speech is a
very important contribution to building China, and I believe my freedom of
speech will be protected by law and by the government."	VERB
Bao, who was made a scapegoat for the upheaval that threatened the control of
the Communist Party, said, "I want to test their promises. So if I meet any
problems, it shows their promises are fake." But in a note of realism about
government security surveillance and the cautious pace of political change in
China, Bao said, "I hope that my telephone works for a while. I hope that my
family has no problems. I hope that I don't have an accident."	VERB
Though less well known internationally than recently released dissidents like
student leader Wang Dan, who led protests for democracy in 1989, or veteran
dissident Wei Jingsheng, Bao has much more influence in China, especially within
the top ranks of the ruling Communist Party. He was a member of the party's
powerful organization department in the 1950s and 1960s, jailed and sent to the
countryside during the Cultural Revolution of 1966-76, and then returned to the
core of people around senior leader Deng Xiaoping in 1977 when China's economic
reform period began. He later became a member of the Central Committee of the
Communist Party and was the point man for political and economic reforms under
Zhao that deemphasized ideology and were aimed at transforming China's centrally
planned economy into one more responsive to market forces.	HIST
"I am still proud that I was a party member," Bao said, "but the Chinese
Communist Party has done a lot of stupid things."	VERB
His comments come amid signs that influential party members are debating
political reform more openly than at any time since the 1989 crackdown. Some
voices outside the party also are calling for a reevaluation of the party's
verdict on the suppression of the 1989 demonstrations, which ended in the deaths
of hundreds of civilians.	EVAL
Bao was riding on a train back to Beijing from the countryside in 1977 when he
heard a radio broadcast that Deng had been rehabilitated. "I had a great deal of
hope in Deng," Bao recalled tonight. "I thought in the beginning he could become
a great man in Chinese history. Unfortunately, during June 4 [1989], he
blackened his own face. No one did this to him. He was too powerful. He did it
to himself. That, I think, is a tragedy for him."	VERB
Bao blamed the Communist Party for thinking it could undertake economic reforms
without significant political reforms. He said that the party should have
embraced political change at the time of the Democracy Wall movement in 1979.
Instead Deng used the movement to crush his leftist rivals, then turned on the
movement and jailed its most prominent advocate, Wei Jingsheng.	CIRC
"This was the biggest lesson" of 1989, Bao said. "I was very active in pushing
political reforms. But I should have pushed for them earlier. From as soon as we
smashed the Gang of Four, just when the Democracy Wall was up, we should have
started."	VERB
 The Gang of Four, which included the widow of Mao Zedong, and which
orchestrated the Cultural Revolution, lost out to a more "moderate" faction in
the power struggle following Mao's death.	HIST
Bao said the failure to act sooner on reforms has created a country with a weak
legal system that risks repeating mistakes of the Cultural Revolution, when
millions of people were killed or exiled to the remote countryside in a decade
of intraparty strife, and of the Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989. He linked
the party's bouts of what he called "madness" with a concern that as China grows
more powerful, it could prove a destabilizing force in Asia and world affairs.
	VERB
China "has already gone mad twice in the last 40 years," Bao said. "You have to
ask yourself a question: What will it do on the international scene? Is it a
source of stability or a potential source of instability? When it doesn't have
enough power, its attitude will be restrained. But once it develops and becomes
strong, what kind of role is it going to play without a complete structural
change?"	VERB
Bao said China should adopt a system of multiparty democracy and said that the
Chinese Communist Party should model itself on American political parties and be
more responsive to its citizens.	VERB
"If we can't do a multiparty system now, we can still start to work within the
party to have a free discussion of opinions," Bao said. Though Bao was expelled
from the party when he was officially sentenced in 1992, he noted that the
ousted premier Zhao is still a party member. "If he could publicize his views
about June 4, that would be an improvement."	VERB
Zhao, who was the second of Deng's proteges to be ousted and who preceded
current party chief Jiang Zemin, lost his post after he appeared in Tiananmen
Square in May 1989 to express sympathy with the students and to plead with them
to leave the site. He lives in Beijing under a loose form of house arrest.
During the party congress last October, he sent a letter to party leaders in an
unsuccessful attempt to get them to reassess the events of 1989.	HIST
Though many officials and scholars blame the students for provoking the
government crackdown through their recalcitrance, Bao said the prime
responsibility was the government's. "As a party member and official, my
mistakes were bigger than theirs," Bao said. "Even if the students made 100
mistakes, it still wasn't equal to what the government did to them in sending
the military to shoot at the people. There's no way you could compare it."	nan
Bao, who joined the party underground during the 1940s when he was a high school
student, had worked with Zhao on economic and political reforms for 10 years at
the time of his arrest. He was held incommunicado for nearly three years in
Beijing's Qincheng Prison, before he was officially sentenced for allegedly
leaking state secrets to the student movement.	HIST
Bao said that his treatment showed the absence of true rule of law in China.	VERB
A
State Council report written by then-Beijing party chief Chen Xitong (now in
jail on corruption charges) accused Bao of leaking word to the students that
martial law would be imposed and advising them about how to confront it.	PREV
But at
his trial in 1992, no mention was made of those charges, Bao said.	PREV
Bao's imprisonment violated one of the unspoken rules Deng made after the
Cultural Revolution. That rule was: If you're a senior party official and lose a
power struggle, you lose your job but you don't go to jail the way people did in
the Cultural Revolution. Bao is the only exception to that in the past 20 years.	EVAL
Bao had no severe complaints about his treatment in jail. But he said he was
denied medical treatment after his release in 1996 when he was confined to a
workers' dormitory in a western suburb of Beijing for 11 months.	VERB
About a year ago, Bao was allowed to leave the dormitory on condition that he
not return to his home in central Beijing. He now lives in a six-room apartment
in western Beijing, near the famous Babaoshan cemetery. He lives on his stipend
from the Communist Party and his wife's pension, a combined income of about $
170 a month. He says he passes his time doting on his wife and playing with his
9-year-old granddaughter.	PREV
"She's unruly, unlike some Chinese girls," he said. "Unfortunately, she has my
genes."	VERB

American Home Products Corp. said yesterday that it will acquire biotechnology
leader Monsanto Co. in a $ 33 billion deal designed to create a powerhouse in
the market for genetically engineered breakthroughs in agriculture, food,
pharmaceuticals and nutrition.	MAIN
The new company, as yet unnamed, would seek to capitalize on a revolution
sweeping biological science. It would have approximately $ 23 billion in sales
in 1998 and would combine American Home's strength in health products with
Monsanto's enormous capabilities in agricultural and pharmaceutical research.
Various divisions of American Home sell Advil, ChapStick, Robitussin cough
products, Centrum vitamins, Premarin hormone supplements and other products that
are household names.	MAIN
The deal, if approved by regulators and stockholders, would provide Monsanto
with the money and marketing clout to move a fat portfolio of new drugs and
agricultural products from the development pipeline into production. And it
would give American Home a far bigger stake in biotechnology, a hot growth
industry.	EXPE
The proposed merger comes at a time when Monsanto and other biotechnology
companies have formed alliances to help them survive intensifying competition
and capitalize on new opportunities in the field known broadly as "life
sciences" research.	CIRC
Deepening scientific knowledge about the way genes work in plants, animals and
people is allowing companies to develop new treatments for diseases, new methods
to raise crop yields and improve the flavor of fruits and vegetables, and new
ways to lessen the environmental damage from farms and factories.	EVAL
These various endeavors, once seen as distinct businesses, are coming to look
more alike because progress in all of them is increasingly based on manipulating
tiny bits of genetic material.	EVAL
"We will have the scientific depth, global marketing capabilities and financial
resources to take greater advantage of the opportunities before us and to bring
innovative new products to market faster," said Monsanto Chairman Robert B.
Shapiro. Shapiro, 59, and American Home Chairman John R. Stafford, 60, will be
co-chairmen of the new company.
	VERB
Executives of Monsanto and American Home said they hope to create a prototype of
the life-sciences company of the future, equally adept at putting new knowledge
to work to build a better tomato or to treat a human disease.	VERB
"There is an enormous market for products that will help us live longer,
overcome disease and have a higher quality of life," said Carl Feldbaum, head of
the Biotechnology Industry Organization, a trade group based in Washington.
"We're talking about a wide variety of new products that will lead to cures,
better nutrition, a cleaner environment."	VERB
Indeed, the opportunities are now so numerous that many of the world's
biotechnology companies are choking on information, unable to deploy enough
capital to move all their good ideas onto the market at once.	EVAL
"We are one of the
prime examples of that," said Nicholas L. Reding, vice chairman of Monsanto.	VERB
When Shapiro took over Monsanto in 1995, he began pushing the company hard
toward life-sciences research, ultimately spinning off the chemicals business on
which Monsanto was originally built. The result was an embarrassment of riches,
a product pipeline so fat that Monsanto cut shareholder dividends to try to
develop many new products at once.	CIRC
"We are rolling out products in agricultural
biotech at an incredible rate," Reding said. "And we have four or five major,
major drugs coming in the next few years."	VERB
Monsanto last month acquired the nation's second-largest seed company, DeKalb
Genetics Corp., and Delta & Pine Land Co., which breeds and produces cotton and
soybeans. But even as it was announcing those deals, Monsanto was viewed as a
likely target of a takeover, possibly by DuPont Co., Pfizer Inc. or Zeneca PLC.	PREV
Indeed, though the agreement between the two companies requires a payment of $
700 million if either subsequently walks away from the deal, other bidders for
Monsanto might still emerge, analysts said.	EXPE
Under the terms of the deal, Mosanto
shareholders will receive 1.15 shares in the new company for each share of
Monsanto they own, and American Home share owners will retain their shares.
Monsanto's shareholders will hold about 35 percent of the stock of the new
company.	MAIN
The news got mixed reviews from investors. American Home shares rose 93 3/4
cents to close at $ 49.25 in consolidated trading on the New York Stock
Exchange. Monsanto shares fell 87 1/2 cents, to $ 54.50, also on the NYSE.	CONS
Historically, Monsanto's greatest strength has been in its agricultural
products, including its herbicide Roundup, a worldwide success that has grown at
a rate of about 20 percent year after year. Monsanto has built on that success
by genetically engineering crops that will resist Roundup -- which kills
anything green -- while it wipes out the weeds among them.	HIST
In 1985, the company acquired G.D. Searle & Co. to move into the pharmaceutical
industry, where it has a number of potentially promising products under
development and nearing approval by the Food and Drug Administration, including
an anti-arthritis drug that doesn't cause the stomach and intestinal damage of
similar drugs.	HIST
American Home Products is based in Madison, N.J., which is to be the corporate
headquarters of the new company. Earlier this year the company, which had been
under pressure since last fall when it was forced to withdraw two obesity drugs
from the market amid safety concerns, had talked about a possible merger with
SmithKline Beecham PLC, the manufacturer of the cold medicine Contac and the
antacid Tums. But the talks collapsed short of a merger.	CIRC
Although the company is best known for pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter
remedies, American Home also has an agricultural chemicals business that it
acquired when it took over American Cyanamid in 1994.	HIST

Ian McCartney helped make history in Northern Ireland today -- but he didn't
find it easy.	LEAD
"It's just a wee sheet of paper they give you," the gray-haired chicken farmer
said as he emerged from the voting booth at Balleymoney Model Primary School.
"But don't you know, it's a complicated thing to work out."	VERB
McCartney and the other 1.2 million eligible voters in this war-torn British
province were voting this rainy day on the 108 members of a brand new Northern
Ireland Assembly, which will take over local government powers here as part of
the new peace plan designed to end decades of sectarian violence.	MAIN
The assembly will give a locally elected government to Northern Ireland for the
first time in a quarter of a century. The last local parliament was disbanded in
1972 when the British government concluded the Protestant majority was using it
to legalize discrimination against Roman Catholics.	MAIN
Counting was to begin Friday, with results not expected until Saturday.	MAIN
The "complicated thing" facing voters is an electoral system called
"Proportional Representation With the Single Transferable Vote." Common in
Europe, it's a voting mechanism designed to ensure the elected assembly
accurately reflects the wide range of choices available in a jurisdiction with
many competing political parties.	CIRC
Twelve parties, plus a cross section of independent candidates, were on the
ballots in the 18 assembly districts today. The "wee sheet of paper" required
voters to allocate their support among an alphabet soup of parties generally
known by their initials: the D.U.P, the P.U.P, the U.U.P, the U.D.P.	CIRC
Five parties represent different strains of the position known here as
"unionist" -- that is, those who want to retain the political union with
Britain. Most unionists are Protestant.	CIRC
Two major parties represent the "nationalist" position -- those who want to
break the tie with Britain and form a single nation with the Republic of
Ireland, which makes up the southern two-thirds of the island. Most nationalists
are Catholic.	CIRC
The other parties are so-called cross-community groupings. Some represent
specific interests, such as the environmentally minded Green Party, and some
were created to overcome the sectarian divisions that have sparked street
warfare and terrorist murder over the past three decades.	CIRC
As a reminder of those old animosities, a large car bomb exploded Wednesday in
the small village of Newtownhamilton, injuring a half-dozen people and wrecking
homes and cars.	CIRC
Today, though, voters turned out in large numbers in
Newtownhamilton to demonstrate that they prefer the ballot to the bomb.	MAIN
Voters got one vote each -- but each vote could be split among numerous
candidates. All the candidates in each district are listed on the ballot, and
voters are asked to rank them in order of preference -- first choice, second
choice and so on, all the way down to 23rd choice in some districts. The choices
are then allocated among the various contenders in such a way that the six
assembly members to be chosen from each district will reflect the range of
preferences among the electorate.	CIRC
"It's a tricky business," McCartney said after spending 15 minutes distributing
his vote. "You have to give some help to parties you don't normally support. You
know, that keeps out the one you're absolutely opposed to."	VERB
For some voters in this green, rolling farm district, the choices were simpler.
Balleymoney is in the North Antrim district, the electoral home of a fiery
Protestant leader, the Rev. Ian Paisley, who opposes the peace agreement.
Several people leaving the primary school said they had simply marked Ian
Paisley and his son, Ian Paisley Jr., as their first and second choices -- and
ignored every other name on the ballot.	VERB

Former Communist Party chief Zhao Ziyang, ousted in 1989 on the eve of the
bloody crackdown on democracy demonstrators in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, has
written a letter asking current party leaders to admit that the move against the
student-led protests was a grave mistake.	MAIN
With President Clinton due to arrive in China Thursday night for a nine-day
visit, the Reuters news agency obtained a copy of Zhao's letter, which said that
the killing of hundreds of demonstrators on June 4, 1989, was "one of the
biggest human rights problems this century."	MAIN
Clinton is the first U.S. president to visit China since Communist leaders
ordered troops to open fire on the Tiananmen demonstrators.	EVAL
The President has
been criticized by members of Congress and U.S. human rights groups for agreeing
to take part in an official welcoming ceremony next to the square.	CIRC
"President Clinton's visit to China marks a turn for the better in Sino-U.S.
relations," wrote Zhao, 78, who was general secretary of the Communist Party and
now lives under loose house arrest in Beijing. "But the United States and the
whole of the West have again and again raised the June 4 problem and the human
rights problem of China," he added. "Rather than let it become an obstacle to
international relations, it would be better to resolve the June 4 problem
ourselves voluntarily."	VERB
White House aides have said that Clinton will speak publicly about human rights
problems in China during his trip but that he will not attempt to meet with
Chinese dissidents.	MAIN
Such meetings would anger his host, President Jiang Zemin,
and possibly put the dissidents in danger of arrest, U.S. officials have said.	CONS
Zhao was toppled from power when other party leaders, including senior leader
Deng Xiaoping, decided that he was too sympathetic toward the student
protesters. Zhao opposed the imposition of martial law and went to Tiananmen
Square to plead with student leaders to disperse the crowds to avoid disaster.
Later, after tanks rolled into the square, Zhao defended the students and their
demands in a secret statement to party leaders.	HIST
In recent years, the Chinese Communist Party has modified its description of the
1989 demonstrations, changing its characterization from a "counterrevolutionary
riot," to an "incident," to the current usage of a very mild version of the word
"disturbance." But the party has steadfastly defended the decision to order
troops to fire on demonstrators.	HIST
Zhao's letter is likely to irritate Jiang, who replaced him as Communist Party
chief in 1989.	EXPE
Zhao made a similar plea to party leaders last September during
an important party congress, and Jiang, in an interview last October, said
sternly that Zhao "must accept party discipline."	PREV
Recently, the government has also tightened its watch on dissidents in an effort
to avoid any disruption during Clinton's visit. Several Chinese who have visited
Beijing from other cities have been picked up by police and sent home. Police
also detained a dissident today in the southern city of Guilin, which Clinton is
to visit on July 1. Eight policemen took Li Xiaolong, 34, a onetime member of
the defunct dissident group Human Rights Voice, from his home and placed him in
custody.	CONS
Despite his age, Zhao is still considered a potential political force, capable
of rallying reformers within the party	EVAL
 Following the September letter, there
was a tightening of restrictions on Zhao, who has tried to play golf regularly
in recent years.	CONS

AT&T Corp. formally announced its $ 48 billion takeover of cable TV giant
Tele-Communications Inc. yesterday, vowing to become the one-stop provider of a
dazzling array of telecommunications services to households across the country.	MAIN
The immediate winner in the deal was TCI's chairman, John C. Malone, who will
receive AT&T stock worth an estimated $ 15 billion for stock he personally owns
or votes in trust for TCI's late founder, Bob Magness. TCI's other public
shareholders will receive AT&T stock worth almost $ 51 per share, a premium of
nearly 32 percent over TCI's Class A stock closing price on Tuesday, and nearly
five times the value of the shares only 20 months ago.	CONS
Malone and AT&T Chairman C. Michael Armstrong promised yesterday that millions
of residential customers will ultimately benefit from the companies' marriage,
too. By coupling TCI's cable connections with its own long-distance lines and
familiar brand name, AT&T said it will someday be able to offer the first major
competition to the regional Bell phone companies, which now hold a near-monopoly
on local phone service.	MAIN
What's more, AT&T envisions a day when customers can obtain, via a single
monthly bill, all of the major telecommunications services: long-distance,
cellular and local phone service, high-speed Internet links, as well as
pay-per-view movies, ESPN's game of the week, and new types of electronic
shopping.	CONS
Said Malone at a news conference in New York: "If you want to order an extra
phone line, all you'll have to do is point and click. . . . If you're watching
an entertainment program and want to order Viagra, all you'll have to do is
point and click." He added: "We're going to make it easy to use . . . [and]
packaged in a way so that the consumer gets a terrific deal."	VERB
Combined, the companies will have an impressive reach.	EVAL
AT&T now serves about
half of all residential long-distance customers, although AT&T must rely on
local phone firms such as Bell Atlantic Corp. to get to those customers' homes.
TCI, meanwhile, serves about 10.5 million cable households. But its wires pass
by a total of 17 million households. It also partially owns companies, such as
Cablevision Systems Corp. of New York, whose wires pass by another 16 million
households -- giving AT&T potential direct access to as much as one-third of all
the nation's households.	CIRC
ATT is hoping regulators will view the deal as a spur to stalled local phone
competition. Analysts said, however, that it could give the regional Bells --
which were spun off from AT&T in 1984 -- a potent argument that they should now
be allowed into the long-distance business. And AT&T will still need the
cooperation of its local phone rivals to serve the two-thirds of the country
TCI's cable won't reach.	EXPE
The creation of the "one-wire world" that Malone and Armstrong described
yesterday is likely to require billions of dollars of additional investment for
AT&T and could take years to complete, analysts and AT&T's competitors say.	EXPE
Investor worries about this drain on future earnings drove down AT&T stock, the
most widely held in the country, which fell $ 5.37 1/2 yesterday to close at $
60 on the New York Stock Exchange. TCI's Class A shares, in contrast, rose $
1.06, to $ 39.75, on the Nasdaq Stock Market.	CONS
Forecasting the telecommunications future has proven notoriously frustrating.	EVAL
Malone himself told an industry conference in 1992 that cable customers would
soon have 500 channels as well as interactive services, such as home shopping,
and phone calls via cable lines. These improvements have failed to materialize.	PREV
Phone companies also made their own unfulfilled promises about the "convergence"
of telecommunications services. Bell Atlantic -- whose deal to buy TCI foundered
in 1993 -- launched two unsuccessful experiments in delivering TV shows, one
over copper phone lines and another over so-called "wireless" digital relay
stations.	PREV
For its part, AT&T last year abandoned an effort to market DirecTV's satellite
TV service through its long-distance operations. (AT&T officials said yesterday
selling cable service, which is more familiar to consumers, should be easier.)
It also made an expensive -- and largely unsuccessful -- foray into the computer
business in 1991, when it bought NCR Corp. for $ 7.4 billion.	PREV
Both Armstrong and Malone vowed yesterday that this time will be different.	VERB
They said AT&T would be able to offer phone service over some of TCI's cable
systems within 18 months. Upgrades of TCI's network that will enable consumers
to receive two-way services, such as lightning-fast connections to the Internet,
will be complete by the end of the year 2000, they added.	VERB
But some doubt those timetables. "It's going to be a while before these things
are generally available," said William Esrey, chief executive of Sprint Corp.,
one of AT&T's main long-distance rivals and a company that once considered a
cable-phone partnership with TCI and two other major cable companies.	VERB
"TCI's [network] is not in great shape," though its cable systems have improved,
Esrey said. "It's not that the cable plant can't be made more reliable. It'll
just take time."	VERB
When TCI's wires do become capable of offering local phone service, AT&T may be
required to lease some of their capacity to competitors, under terms of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.	EXPE
Steve Case, chief executive of America Online Inc., the Dulles-based online
service, noted that possibility yesterday, saying in a statement: "We look
forward to entering into a broadband reseller agreement with AT&T once the
merger with TCI is complete, and we look forward to entering similar agreements
with other cable companies as they, too, embrace a truly 'open cable' approach."	VERB
In light of all this, Sprint's Esrey questioned whether AT&T was paying too much
for TCI. In addition to the $ 31.8 billion in stock it will pay for TCI's Class
A and B shares, AT&T will take on TCI's $ 11 billion in debt, plus lay out $ 5.5
billion more to buy back TCI's interest in Teleport Communications Group Inc.
and At Home Corp.	MAIN
All told, AT&T reckoned the value of the deal is $ 48 billion -- or a little
less than twice the annual revenue for the entire cable industry.	MAIN
The buyout of TCI will apparently mean a greatly reduced role for Malone,
perhaps the most powerful man in the cable industry and its best-known figure
after Time Warner Inc. Vice Chairman Ted Turner.	CONS
Although Malone will be a major AT&T shareholder and a member of the AT&T board,
his main job will be running Liberty Media Corp., a spinoff from TCI that holds
its minority investments in such cable networks as Discovery and Black
Entertainment Television.	CONS
Said a longtime Malone colleague, "It looks to me like
John has found his exit strategy."	VERB
D.C. residents may be among the beneficiaries of AT&T's plan to upgrade
services, since TCI controls the local cable provider, District Cablevision.	EXPE
But
Robert L. Johnson, who is chairman of the partnership that owns a portion of the
D.C. system, said yesterday that it might be a candidate for sale because it
doesn't fit easily into TCI's cluster of systems in other metropolitan areas.	CONS

For one day last week this mountain village in East Timor displayed the kind of
social harmony that Indonesia has tried to enforce here during 23 years of
military occupation. Indonesian military commanders dressed in civilian clothes
and wearing awkward smiles joined hands and danced with East Timorese in
traditional costumes to celebrate the inauguration of a new wing of the Roman
Catholic Sacred Heart Church.	LEAD
Venilale's chief of police and the army commander, both Catholics, sang hymns in
the church choir. Their subordinates, who are predominantly Muslim, helped
fashion the decorations for the celebration. "They make beautiful flowers," said
Sister Lucia Pereira of the Salesian order in Venilale.	LEAD
That the meeting should have happened in a Catholic church was particularly
meaningful. Under Indonesia's rule, the Catholic Church in Timor has emerged as
a protector of the political opposition in the former Portuguese colony that
Indonesia invaded in 1975 and annexed the following year.	EVAL
Parishes throughout East Timor offer sanctuary for victims of human rights
abuses, and church-linked organizations often serve as forums for underground
groups seeking to win independence from Indonesia. Eighty percent of East
Timor's residents are Catholic, while 90 percent of Indonesia's 200 million
people are Muslim -- and less than 3 percent of Indonesians are Catholic.	CIRC
Bishop Carlos Belo, who has become a de facto president for the East Timorese
because of his efforts to end human rights abuses by the military, met with
Indonesian President B.J. Habibie today to discuss the status of the territory.
Belo told reporters they talked about an agreement but he declined to give
details. He said the military would withdraw "little by little" from the region
but gave no timetable.	MAIN
He also indicated that Habibie's stated policy toward East Timor was more
conciliatory than that of his predecessor, Suharto, who stepped down last month
after 32 years in power.	MAIN
"He shows himself as a big politician and a big president," Belo said of
Habibie. "He's ready with his government to improve the situation in East Timor
for the better, how to help the people of East Timor live in dignity."	VERB
Following mounting protests against Indonesian rule, Habibie has proposed a plan
that would give the territory a degree of autonomy, except in the areas of
finance, foreign affairs and security.	CIRC
Timorese activists have said that a referendum is the only way to determine the
region's future. The United Nations still recognizes Portugal as the territory's
administrative authority. Meetings between Portugal, Indonesia and the United
Nations have not resolved East Timor's status during more than 10 years of
negotiations.	CIRC
The participation of Belo, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1996 along with
self-exiled Timorese leader Jose Ramos-Horta, is key to reaching a solution on
East Timor, activists here say. He is one of the few people Timorese say they
trust, even though at times his quick temper can make him appear as autocratic
as a man in military uniform.	EVAL
"The bishop is like God for them," said a Salesian nun in Dili, the East
Timorese capital. "Everybody goes to him -- the simple people. If they have an
argument over pigs or property they go to him. Who [else] would they go to? The
police? The police are all with the military. The military can't speak" the
local language.	VERB
In an apparent effort to bring the military and the local population closer
together, a number of Catholic and other Christian Indonesian officers have been
appointed to command positions in Venilale, about three hours east of the
capital, and elsewhere in the territory.	MAIN
Sgt. Antonius Karolus, the Indonesian police chief in Venilale, is a Catholic
who is active in local church activities. He lives in the village with his wife
and children and said he feels as though he is part of the community. "Where
would I go?" he said. "I've lived here for 11 years."	VERB
Timorese remain skeptical of the military's commitment to foster goodwill
through religion and doubt whether it helps. They say they see Catholic soldiers
first and foremost as Indonesians. "It is quite different to be an Indonesian
Catholic," said a human rights worker with the Justice and Peace Commission in
Dili. "They bring their culture and their nationalism to impose on East Timor.
They are Catholic but they represent Indonesian sovereignty that they want to
impose on the people."	VERB
"Even Catholic priests from Indonesia -- people will not make confession to
them," he said.	VERB
The soldiers have their own suspicions about the church, in part because several
resistance leaders, including Xanana Gusmao, who is in jail, studied at
seminaries in the territory.	CIRC
"Even the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts in the church, the military says they are
being trained for future empowerment," said an activist who goes by the name of
Vico.	VERB
Suharto tried to win the souls of the Timorese a few years ago by making a gift:
a massive statue of Jesus on a hill, looking toward Dili.	PREV
But when it was unveiled, as Suharto circled in a helicopter, it was revealed to
be somewhat of a false idol. Officials announced that it was 27 meters tall,
representing the 27 provinces of Indonesia. It is 17 meters across,
commemorating July 17, the date on which Indonesia "integrated" East Timor. The
foundation is five meters high, representing the five points of pancasilla, the
Indonesian state ideology, which promotes religious tolerance, among other
tenets.	PREV
"That is how Jesus was born and made by the Indonesians," Vico said. "His hands
are like this," he said, stretching out his arms and turning up his palms:
"Surrender to Indonesia."	VERB

 Alarmed over new violence in Sierra Leone,
the Security Council appealed Friday to the Nigerian-led African
intervention force to allow speedy delivery of humanitarian aid now
that that its troops have captured the West African nation's
capital.	MAIN
The Nigerian-led force launched an attack last week to unseat
the military junta and restore the country's elected president,
Ahmed Tejan Kabbah, who was ousted last May in a bloody coup.
Nigerian-led troops captured large parts of the center of the
capital, Freetown, on Thursday. Civilians reportedly celebrated in
the streets.	MAIN
The events in Sierra Leone were deeply embarrassing to the
council, however. Although the 15 members had called for Kabbah's
restoration, they had never authorized the use of force.
Instead, the council had endorsed an agreement reached last year
for a peaceful restoration of the elected government by April 22.
Foreign ministers of the West African countries involved in the
peacekeeping force had visited U.N. headquarters last week but gave
no indication they were about to launch a bid to overthrow the
junta.	CONS
``The Security Council expressed its concern over the very
unstable situation in parts of the country and over the heavy
civilian losses which have been reported,'' council President Denis
Dangue Rewaka of Gabon told reporters after a meeting.
``The Security Council has emphasized that international
humanitarian law must be upheld,'' he added. ``The Security Council
called for the humanitarian assistance to be activated immediately,
including cross-border operations, and for full, unrestricted
access to the people in need.''	VERB
Dangue Rewaka also said the council urged protection of
international aid workers and steps to return the country to
stability. It urged the Nigerian-led force ``to cooperate fully''
with the United Nations ``with the view of rapid evaluation of the
situation on the ground.''	VERB
Dangue Rewaka refused to say whether the council felt
embarrassed by the failure of West African foreign ministers to
notify them in advance of the campaign.
But he noted that the council had never authorized the West
Africans to use force to oust the junta. He acknowledged that the
council was ``concerned by the use of force.''	VERB
During the meeting, the U.N. humanitarian coordinator, Sergio de
Mello, said about 250,000 people had been displaced by the
fighting. De Mello said the situation was ``dramatic, not only in
the area of Freetown'' but elsewhere in the country.	VERB
The West African force intervened in Sierra Leone soon after the
junta led by Maj. Johnny Koroma toppled Kabbah. After bombarding
Freetown in a failed attempt to drive the junta from power, the
force blockaded Freetown's port to prevent food, fuel and other
necessities from reaching the city.	MAIN
Despite international criticism of its human-rights record,
Nigeria _ apparently trying to improve its image and its clout in
the region _ has become a self-appointed protector of democracy in
parts of Africa.	EVAL

Iraq's deputy foreign minister attacked
U.S. National Security Advisor Sandy Berger Friday, accusing him of
``lies and deception.''	LEAD
Riyadh al-Qaysi picked his way through Berger's press conference
in Washington hours earlier, criticizing the security advisor's
assertion that Iraq had been repeatedly in ``material breach'' of
U.N. Security Council resolutions.	MAIN
``Iraq challenges (Berger) to produce one Security Council
resolution using those two words,'' al-Qaysi told reporters in
Baghdad.	MAIN
He said that Berger might not have been concerned with reality,
because he had indicated that if the United States did not have the
Security Council's unanimous support for a military strike, it
would go ahead anyway.	VERB
``Everybody knows that under the charter of the United Nations,
the five permanent members have a special responsibility for the
maintenance of international peace and security and there are three
permanent members _ namely Russia, France and China _ who do not
want war, so unanimity does not exist,'' al-Qaysi said.	MAIN
The deputy foreign minister accused Berger of being part of a
campaign against Iraq.	MAIN
``This campaign is being conducted on the basis of lies and
deception and should not be taken by anyone in the world as being a
justifiable basis for war.''	VERB
``This is exactly what the United States, as supported by the
United Kingdom, are trying to achieve.''	VERB

 Israel will ask the United States to delay a
military strike against Iraq until the Jewish state is fully
prepared for a possible Iraqi attack with non-conventional weapons,
the defense minister said in remarks published Friday.	MAIN
Also Friday, the United States announced that it sent a team
from the Center for Disease Control to assist the Palestinian
Authority in assessing its ability to protect its population in the
event of a biological or chemical weapon attack by Iraq.	SECD
The U.S. ambassador to Israel, Edward Walker, assured Defense
Minister Yitzhak Mordechai in a meeting that Israel would have
enough time to properly prepare.	CONS
Israel is equipping its residents with gas masks and preparing
kits with antidotes.	MAIN
Gabi Ofir, the commander of Israel's distribution centers told
Israel Radio that 300,000 gas mask kits have been dispensed to the
public in the last several weeks.	CONS
Israel has been scrambling to buy more masks abroad. after a
shortage of several hundred thousand gas masks, including those for
young children, was discovered.	CONS
Germany has agreed to lend Israel 180,000 protective kits
against chemical and biological weapons, and Switzerland offered to
lend Israel another 25,000 masks.	CONS
In Stockholm, the Swedish government announced it has authorized
the sale of up to 80,000 gas masks for children.	CONS
Government spokesman Moshe Fogel said Israel appreciated the
Swiss offer, but would have to determine the masks' compatibility
to Israel's needs before accepting.	CONS
Meanwhile, an Israeli delegation traveled Friday to Oslo to
examine 200,000 gas masks the Norwegian government has offered,
Israel radio said.	CONS
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called the prime minister of
the Netherlands to thank him for thousands of gas masks his country
has already contributed.	CONS
The Defense Ministry said 16 planes have landed so far with
protective equipment against biological and chemical warfare.
Mordechai said all the gas masks from abroad would arrive soon and
be distributed to the public, adding that additional distribution
centers would be set up next week.	CONS
`There is no reason why we would not be prepared,'' Mordechai
told the Yediot Ahronot daily. ``If, in spite of everything, we
will not be ready, we will ask the United States to delay the
operation.''	VERB
``There is no certainty that they will do what we ask, but they
will definitely take into consideration our readiness,'' he added.
Israel's armed forces chief, Lt. Gen. Amnon Lipkin-Shahak,
appeared on national television Friday night in attempt to reassure
a jittery public.	VERB
``When events are concrete and actually unfolding, we will
include the entire population in the measures we decide are
appropriate to take,'' Shahak said in an interview with Channel Two
Television.	VERB
Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz said earlier this week
that Baghdad has no intention of attacking Israel even if Iraq is
targeted by the United States.	VERB

Dominican authorities
have arrested a doctor sought by U.S. authorities for defrauding
the Medicare system for millions of dollars while practicing in New
York.	MAIN
The arrest of the politically well-connected Dr. Rafael Gonzalez
Pantaleon represents another step by Dominican authorities toward
increased cooperation with the United States, which is seeking
extradition of numerous suspects hiding out in their home country.	EVAL
Gonzalez Pantaleon, a former government official and political
party leader in this Caribbean nation, was convicted in New York in
1996 of defrauding Medicare of dlrs 20 million. He was sentenced to
six and one-half years in prison and fined dlrs 5 million, but he
fled the United States while free on bail.	CIRC
Officials said Gonzalez Pantaleon was arrested Thursday, one day
after U.S. Undersecretary of State John Hamilton met with President
Leonel Fernandez to ask for the extradition of 30 drug trafficking
and murder suspects believed to be in the Dominican Republic	CIRC
Extradition of Dominicans is a controversial topic made more
complicated by conflicting laws.	EVAL
While a 1910 treaty permits
extradition, a law passed in 1969 prohibits Dominicans from being
turned over to other nations. But the latter law did not abolish
the previous treaty.	EXPL
Fernandez has urged a new law be passed to clear up the
conflict.	CONS
Last year, Fernandez handed over to U.S. authorities two
suspects accused in U.S. courts of multiple murders, drug
trafficking and conspiracy.	PREV
Fernandez justified the extraditions by saying that the country
could not become a haven for fleeing felons.	VERB

Turning its back on 210 years of
loyalty to the British royal family, a constitutional convention
voted overwhelmingly Friday to make Australia a republic under its
own president.	MAIN
Prime Minister John Howard, a monarchist himself, promised to
put the question to a national referendum next year after
convention delegates voted 89-52 for a republic, with 11
abstentions.	CIRC
Spontaneous applause echoed through the chamber and public
galleries as the crucial vote passed by a wide margin.	CONS
``I want a referendum,'' Howard said. ``The Australian people
are owed the opportunity of expressing an opinion on this.''	VERB
``It would be a travesty in common sense terms of Australian
democracy for that proposition not to be put to the Australian
people,'' Howard said.	VERB
``This convention will be seen as a turning point in our
history,'' Australian Republican Movement spokeswoman Mary
Delahunty said.	VERB
Even in his own Cabinet, Howard is becoming increasingly
isolated with his monarchist stance	EVAL
Treasurer Peter Costello,
Environment Minister Robert Hill and Attorney General Daryl
Williams all voted to support the republic Friday.	CIRC
Pro-republicans hope to have an Australian president by the
opening of the 2000 Olympics and the 100th anniversary of
Australian federation.	EXPE
Calling for an amended constitution with a new preamble, to be
written by Australian poets, republican Janet Holmes a Court said,
``We need the smell of eucalyptus in this, and the feel of red
dust.''	VERB
Monarchists hope to defeat the republic at the referendum.	MAIN
``The phony war has finished and the real referendum campaign
has clearly begun,'' Australians for a Constitutional Monarchy
executive director Kerry Jones said.	VERB
``Well may we say `God save the Queen,' for nothing will save
the republic,'' outraged monarchist delegate David Mitchell said.
``The idea of a republic will fall to dust through the grace of
almighty God.''	VERB
Polls have shown public support for a republic increasing,
rising from about 35 percent several years ago to about 51 percent
this year, as pro-monarchist sentiment diminishes.	CIRC
Australia has been independent since 1901, but like many
Commonwealth nations it still recognizes the British monarch as its
head of state.	HIST
Howard said Queen Elizabeth II is taking a great interest in the
convention.	SECD
``She is, I can assure you, from what I've been told, she's
following the thing very closely and taking the view it's our
business.	VERB
``It's no secret that she's indicated to me ... she is a 20th
century democrat, understands that the role of the crown in
Australia rests in the hands of the Australian people as it has for
almost a hundred years.''	VERB
The model for a republic, adopted over bitter objections from
those advocating direct election of a president, is for
presidential nominations to be made with public input and the
winning candidate decided by a two-thirds majority of Parliament.
Former prime minister Paul Keating, who put the republic issue
in the spotlight in his unsuccessful 1996 campaign for re-election,
welcomed the result.	EXPL
``This is an important step along the path towards Australia
claiming its full sovereignty, and due recognition that the
monarchy can no longer serve us appropriately,'' Keating said.	VERB

 Top seed Jana Novotna of the Czech Republic
recovered from a second set trouncing to advance to the semi-finals
of the Paris Open Friday, beating seventh-seed Barbara Paulus, of
Austria, 6-2, 1-6, 6-4.	MAIN
``That was one tough match,'' Novotna, 29, said. ``I'm just
happy I came out a winner.''	VERB
Winner of the season-ending Chase Championships and currently
ranked third in the world, Novotna now meets Germany's Anke Huber,
seeded fifth, in Saturday's semi-finals.	CONS
The dlrs 480,000 Paris Open is Novotna's first tournament of the
year.	EXPL
In other action, Belgium's Dominique Van Roost, seeded sixth,
beat the 1997 French Open champion Iva Majoli, of Slovakia, 7-5
6-3.	SECD
Both players were treated for injuries during play, Van Roost
suffering from stiffness in the forearm and Majoli with a
right-ankle strain.	SECD
``I played really good tennis today except at the start. I have
a flat-hitting game and I can take the risks I want to take when I
play indoors, '' Van Roost said.	VERB
The Belgian will now match up with the winner of the all-French
duel later Friday between Nathalie Tauziat, seeded fourth, and
Sarah Pitkowski.	CONS

Britain and some of its Caribbean
colonies clashed over London's insistence that the islands abolish
the death penalty as a step towards closer relations, delegates to
a Caribbean forum said Friday.	LEAD
Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, who attended the United
Kingdom-Caribbean Forum in Nassau, has urged the colonies to join
the Labor government in abolishing the death penalty.	MAIN
Cook made the appeal in a Feb. 4 speech in which he said Britain
was considering granting full citizenship to its colonies.	MAIN
Toward closer ties, the colonies also are getting their own
minister, a forum for annual top-level consultations, and a new
name _ ``overseas territories'' _ reflecting they are
self-governing rather than dependent.	VERB
``They are saying we must eliminate the death penalty. But we
had a referendum and people voted for it to remain,'' Bermuda
Premier Pamela Gordon said Friday.	VERB
Other delegates said the former British colonies of Belize and
Trinidad and Tobago were upset that the death penalty issue was
included in a working session on human rights on Thursday. British
officials had no immediate comment on the discussions.	MAIN
Some Caribbean countries beset by an increasing number of
drug-related murders have tried to use the death penalty. But they
have been obstructed by the Privy Council in London, the highest
appeals court for several former and current British colonies.	CIRC
In 1993, the Privy Council ruled it was inhumane to execute
prisoners who had waited on death row for more than five years. It
recommended that inmates who exceed that period have their
sentences commuted to life in prison.	HIST
The ruling effectively ended hangings in many Caribbean
countries, where appeals cases sometimes drag on for a decade.	EVAL
Delegates from some former colonies have suggested they will act
on longstanding plans to create their own supreme court and cut
their ties to the Privy Council.	CONS
``Human rights mean different things to different countries, and
for us in the Caribbean we have made it clear we don't want anybody
lecturing us about human rights,'' said Guyanese Foreign Minister
Clement Rohee.	VERB

CANBERRA, Australia (AP) _ Qantas will almost double its flights
between Australia and India by August in the search for new markets
untouched by the crippling Asian financial crisis.	LEAD
This move comes barely a month after Qantas suspended a number
of services between Australia, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia in
the wake of the Asian economic crisis.	PREV
The airline has also cut all flights to South Korea.	CIRC
Qantas plans daily flights between Sydney and Bombay, up from
the current four flights a week, to boost business and tourism ties
with India, the airline announced Friday.	MAIN
In a joint statement with Tourism Minister Andrew Thomson, it
said two new flights would leave Bombay on Monday and Tuesday
nights from March 30, with the third departing each Thursday from
August 6.	VERB
This will add nearly 700 seats a week on the route.	CONS
Thomson, in India to talk to tourism leaders, said the flights
would provide extra support to the growing tourism market.	VERB
Qantas' India manager Khursheed Lam said the airline was working
closely with the Australian Tourist Commission to develop greater
awareness of Australia in the Indian market.	VERB
Qantas will also appoint a Bombay-based public relations
consultant.	CIRC

Top seed Richard Krajicek of the
Netherlands downed eighth-seeded Czech Daniel Vacek in straight
sets Friday to advance to the semifinals of the St. Petersburg
Open.	MAIN
The 1996 Wimbledon champion beat Vacek 7-6 (7-4), 6-1.
Fourth-seeded Marc Rosset of Switzerland breezed past Slovakia's
Dominik Hrbaty, seeded sixth, 6-4, 6-3 and second seed Cedric
Pioline of France outlasted unseeded Hendrik Dreekmann of Germany
4-6, 6-3, 7-5.	MAIN
Thomas Johansson of Sweden, who won the 1996 competition who is
seeded fifth, ousted third-seeded France's Fabrice Santoro 6-3,
6-3. Johansson goes against Krajicek in the semifinals.	MAIN
In doubles, South Africans Marius Barnard and Brent Haygarth
beat fellow countrymen John-Laffnie Dejager and Robbie Koenig 6-3,
6-4.	MAIN

AMSTERDAM, Netherlands (AP) _ Storied Dutch soccer club Ajax
Amsterdam is planning to seek a listing on the Amsterdam stock
exchange, Dutch media reported Friday, citing ``reliable sources.''	LEAD
Ajax declined comment, but a meeting has been called Monday for
club members to discuss the future, club sources told the Dutch NOS
and RTL news programs.	VERB
Ajax, currently leading the Dutch league and a quarter finalist
in the UEFA Cup, would become the first Dutch soccer club to float
itself on the stock exchange in a move that would likely generate
millions of guilders (dlrs) in extra revenue.	EXPE
Although Ajax has long been one of Europe's most successful
clubs, it has never spent heavily on the transfer market, instead
relying on its world famous youth development program to turn out
home-grown stars.	EVAL
In the past the scheme has produced players including Johan
Cruyff, Arsenal's Dennis Bergkamp and AC Milan striker Patrick
Kluivert.	HIST
Ajax has won the Dutch league a record 26 times and European
soccer's greatest prize, the European Cup, four times.	HIST
Any move to the stock exchange is expected to be led by Ajax's
main sponsor, the Dutch bank ABN Amro. Sources at the bank also
declined to comment on a planned listing.	EXPE

The U.S.-Russian split over Iraq underlines how
ties between Moscow and Washington have cooled as the Russians try
to reassert themselves as a world power.	LEAD
While there is no danger of reviving the Cold War rivalry that
dominated the world for more than 45 years, the diplomatic
honeymoon that followed the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 is
coming to an end.	LEAD
Both Moscow and Washington value good relations, but there are
likely to be more and more disagreements as Russia goes its own
way.	EVAL
Russia's opposition to the use of force in Iraq is the latest in
a series of foreign policy disputes with the United States.	EVAL
Moscow
bitterly opposes NATO expansion in east Europe, and Parliament has
blocked the START II missile-reduction treaty with Washington.
Moscow also is building links with China, saying the world must
not be dominated by the United States.	MAIN
President Boris Yeltsin and other top Russian officials have
unleashed a barrage of warnings on U.S. military strikes against
Iraq. Yeltsin said last week a U.S. attack could lead to world war
and his defense minister, Igor Sergeyev, publicly warned U.S.
Defense Secretary William Cohen in Moscow against attacking Iraq.	MAIN
At the heart of Russia's opposition are two issues.	EVAL
On one level, the issue is mostly pragmatic.	EVAL
The second issue, emotive and unpredictable, is Russia's status
in the world. Many Russians yearn for the days when Moscow was the
world's other superpower.	EVAL
The fact that Russia has lost much of its power makes the need
to play a major global role all the more pressing for many Russian
officials. And envy of its old rival, the United States, is rising
as Russia's power continues to decline.	EXPL
 Iraq, an old Soviet
client state, owes Moscow billions of dollars for weapons that
can't be paid until U.N. sanctions end.	EXPL
Russia, its economy in
chaos, desperately needs the cash and also hopes for big new
contracts with Iraq when sanctions end.	EVAL
Russian officials dismiss suggestions they would aid Iraq
against the United States. Moscow backs United Nations' efforts to
strip Iraq of weapons of mass production, but says only a
diplomatic solution can work.	VERB
Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov, who formed close ties in the
Middle East as a Soviet diplomat, has pushed for a Moscow-backed
solution on Iraq to help restore Russian influence in the region.	CIRC
The Russian government has neither the desire or power to risk a
major confrontation with the United States.	EVAL
Yeltsin considers good
relations with Washington a foundation of his foreign policy.	EVAL
But the Russian government and many politicians will be
stridently critical of the United States if they believe they are
being ignored.	EXPE
And Russian nationalists will use resentment of
American power to boost their calls to revive Russia as a great
power.	EXPE
Anti-American resentment has increased as the United States has
tried to influence Russian policy through economic leverage _
particularly in the hard-line parliament.	CIRC
Some American officials concede that Washington should be more
careful about Russian sensibilities.	VERB
Moscow should be courted as an
ally, they say, lending support to democratic government in Russia.	VERB
``I think it does reflect a sense here of resentment of being
ordered around, which in some cases I think our government has done
in a way that is not productive,'' U.S. Ambassador James Collins
said recently.	VERB

 Franco Squillari defeated Miguel
Tobon 6-2, 6-1, 6-1 on Friday as Argentina took a 2-0 lead over
Colombia in the first day of Davis Cup competition.	MAIN
In the opening match, Lucas Arnold easily beat Mario Rincon 6-0,
6-2, 6-2 in Group One of the American Zone. Arnold, Argentina's
third-ranking player, needed little more than 1 and 1/2 hours to
finish off Colombia's top player.	MAIN
The competition continues through Sunday at the Mayling Club de
Campo, 40 miles (60 kms) north of Buenos Aires.	CONS
Lucas Arnold and Luris Lobo, both of Argentina, will face Miguel
Tobon and Philippe Moggio in doubles play on Saturday.	CONS
If victorious, Argentina will play Chile _ whose team includes
recent Australian Open finalist, Marcelo Rios _ in April.	CONS

 Italian defender Christian Panucci ruled
out reports Friday that he planned to leave Real Madrid and rejoin
Fabio Capello's AC Milan, saying he intended to finish his
six-season contract with the Spanish club.	MAIN
``I wouldn't go to Milan for a billion,'' Panucci, sitting
alongside Madrid chairman Lorenzo Sanz, told a press conference.
``I am very happy here.''	VERB
A former Milan star, Panucci signed for Real Madrid half-way
through last season while Capello was coach of the Spanish side and
led it to win the league championship. He is under contract until
2003.	CIRC
Sanz said that anyone who wanted to buy Panucci before that
would have to pay the 15 billion pesetas (dlrs 100 million)
stipulated.	VERB
Talk that Panucci might follow Capello back home increased in
recent weeks with poor performances leading him to be frequently
placed on the substitutes' bench by current Madrid coach Juup
Heynckes.	CIRC

AMSTERDAM, Netherlands (AP) _ Legendary Dutch soccer club Ajax
Amsterdam is planning to seek a listing on the Amsterdam stock
exchange, Dutch media reported Friday, citing reliable sources.	LEAD
Ajax declined comment, but a meeting has been called Monday for
club members to discuss the future, club sources told the Dutch NOS
and RTL news programs.	PREV
Ajax, currently leading the Dutch league and a quarter finalist
in the UEFA Cup, would become the first Dutch soccer club to float
itself on the stock exchange in a move that would likely generate
millions of guilders (dollars) in extra revenue.	CIRC
Although Ajax has long been one of Europe's most successful
clubs, it has never spent heavily on the transfer market, instead
relying on its world famous youth development program to turn out
home-grown stars.	CIRC
In the past the scheme has produced players including Johan
Cruyff, Arsenal's Dennis Bergkamp and AC Milan striker Patrick
Kluivert.	PREV
Ajax has won the Dutch league a record 26 times and European
soccer's greatest prize, the European Cup, four times.	HIST
Any move to the stock exchange is expected to be led by Ajax's
main sponsor, the Dutch bank ABN Amro. Sources at the bank also
declined to comment on a planned listing.	EXPE

BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) _ Iraq's deputy foreign minister attacked
U.S. National Security Advisor Sandy Berger Friday, accusing him of
``lies and deception.''	LEAD
Riyadh al-Qaysi picked his way through Berger's press conference
in Washington hours earlier, criticizing the security advisor's
assertion that Iraq had been repeatedly in ``material breach'' of
U.N. Security Council resolutions.	MAIN
``Iraq challenges (Berger) to produce one Security Council
resolution using those two words,'' al-Qaysi told reporters in
Baghdad.	VERB
He said that Berger might not have been concerned with reality,
because he had indicated that if the United States did not have the
Security Council's unanimous support for a military strike, it
would go ahead anyway.	VERB
``Everybody knows that under the charter of the United Nations,
the five permanent members have a special responsibility for the
maintenance of international peace and security and there are three
permanent members _ namely Russia, France and China _ who do not
want war, so unanimity does not exist,'' al-Qaysi said.	VERB
The deputy foreign min	MAIN
ister accused Berger of being part of a
campaign against Iraq.
``This campaign is being conducted on the basis of lies and
deception and should not be taken	VERB
by anyone in the world as being a
justifiable basis for war.''
``This is exactly what the United States, as s	VERB

CAGUAS, Puerto Rico (AP) _ Kidnappers kept their promise to kill
a store owner they took hostage and police found the man's
dismembered and decapitated body Friday wrapped in plastic garbage
bags.	LEAD
Police confirmed Friday that the body found along a highway in
this municipality 15 miles south of San Juan belonged to Jorge
Hernandez, 49.	MAIN
Hernandez was kidnapped from his small, neighborhood store in
the town of Trujillo Alto at 10 p.m. Wednesday, police said. His
kidnappers demanded a ransom of dlrs 1 million, but negotiations
broke off at noon Thursday.	PREV
Police gave no details about the negotiations with the
kidnappers for the return of Hernandez.	PREV
The store owner's body was found with the arms and head cut off
and the parts stuffed in separate garbage bags. A passerby called
police to report the body alongside the road.	MAIN
Puerto Rico Police Superintendent Pedro Toledo urged people who
might be targeted by kidnappers to be alert.	VERB
``There has been an increase in Puerto Rico in this kind of
thing and some of these bands of kidnappers are made up of
foreigners,'' Toledo said.	VERB
While some Latin American countries such as Mexico and Colombia
have suffered from a rash of kidnappings in recent years, the crime
has not been common in this U.S. commonwealth.	EVAL

TBILISI, Georgia (AP) _ Kidnappers seized four United Nations
military observers in the former Soviet republic of Georgia on
Thursday, but police quickly tracked down and surrounded the armed
gang.	LEAD
The abductors demanded that the government free seven people
arrested for allegedly taking part in the last week's failed
attempt to kill President Eduard Shevardnadze.	MAIN
Traveling in two cars, the kidnappers abducted the observers and
stole one of their vehicles in the western Georgia town of Zugdidi,
police said.	MAIN
Several hours later, police encircled a house where the
kidnappers and the hostages were holed up in the village of
Dzhikhaskari, 20 kilometers (12 miles) away, Georgia's Interior
Minister Kakha Targamadze said.	VERB
Security officials placed armored military vehicles outside the
house and began negotiations with the kidnappers, the interior
minister added.	VERB
The kidnap victims included two observers from Uruguay, one from
Sweden and one from the Czech Republic, along with their Georgian
driver, according to the U.N. office.	CIRC
The Uruguayans were identified as captains Ronald Garcia and
Julio Navas, and the Swede as Maj. Maaren Moelgaard. The identities
of the others were not immediately known.	CIRC
The interior minister said the kidnappers were supporters of
former president Zviad Gamsakhurdia, who was ousted in 1992 and who
died under mysterious circumstances in 1994.	VERB
The kidnappers said they would free their hostages only if
authorities release all seven Gamsakhurdia supporters arrested in
recent days for alleged involvement in a Feb. 9 assassination
attempt against Shevardnadze.	CIRC
Two of Shevardnadze's bodyguards were killed in last week's
attack, as was one of the assailants, but the president was
unharmed.	PREV
The U.N. observers are in Georgia to monitor the truce between
government forces and separatists in the northwest province of
Abkhazia. The separatists took control of the province in a 1992-3
war.	HIST
The U.N. team, along with Russian forces, have helped prevent
further outbreaks of fighting, but there has been no real progress
toward a political settlement.
	   (md/vi/gm)	EVAL

O'SMACH, Cambodia (AP) _ The top commander of a Cambodian
resistance force said Thursday he has sent a team to recover the
remains of a British mine removal expert kidnapped and presumed
killed by Khmer Rouge guerrillas almost two years ago.	LEAD
Gen. Nhek Bunchhay, a loyalist of ousted Cambodian Prime
Minister Prince Norodom Ranariddh, said in an interview with The
Associated Press at his hilltop headquarters that he hopes to
recover the remains of Christopher Howes within the next two weeks.	VERB
Howes had been working for the Britain-based Mines Advisory
Group when he was abducted with his Cambodian interpreter Houn
Hourth in March 1996. There were many conflicting accounts of his
fate.	HIST
Howes' team was clearing mines 17 kilometers (10 miles) from
Angkor Wat, the fabled 11th century temple that is Cambodia's main
tourist attraction, when it was attacked.	HIST
In January this year, British police officers who had been
searching for Howes concluded he had probably been killed soon
after being captured.	PREV
The Foreign Office said it had informed the family of Howes, 37
years old when he was kidnapped, that he probably died within weeks
or months of his capture on March 26, 1996.	VERB
``Obviously, it is deeply discouraging for the family after 22
months, but there is no proof of life. But there is no evidence in
either direction _ that there is proof of life or death,'' said a
Foreign Office spokesman, speaking with customary anonymity. ``We
will continue to do everything we can to establish what has
happened.''	VERB
Thai military officials who monitor Cambodian affairs said
privately Thursday that Britain, through its embassies in Thailand
and Cambodia, has been pushing hard to resolve the Howes case as
the second anniversary of his abduction nears.	VERB
Nhek Bunchhay, who had been closely involved in the search for
Howes before having to flee the Cambodian capital after a coup
d'etat last year, appeared confident he would find Howes' remains.	EVAL
He said he received information from Khmer Rouge guerrillas on
where the body had been buried, and recently ordered 10 of his men
from a force of 500 near Khmer Rouge headquarters in Anlong Veng to
conduct the search.	VERB
If and when the remains are found, he said, they would be turned
over to the British Embassy, apparently meaning they would be sent
across the border into Thailand and onward to Bangkok.	VERB
Nhek Bunchhay said he now believed Howes had been killed within
a week of his capture by a Khmer Rouge faction loyal to Pol Pot,
then the guerrilla group's leader. Pol Pot is considered
responsible for the radical policies that led to the deaths of as
many as 1.7 million Cambodians when the communist group held power
in the late 1970s.	VERB
At the time Howes was captured, the Khmer Rouge were a more or
less united guerrilla force with more than 10,000 men under arms.
But the group began to fall apart in mid-1996 after the defection
of one of its top leaders, Ieng Sary. Other commanders, and
thousands of guerrillas, followed him.	HIST
A small hardcore group under Pol Pot continued to hold out at
their headquarters at Anlong Veng in northern Cambodia near the
Thai border.	CIRC
But in June last year, the remaining leadership had a falling
out, and Pol Pot was arrested.	PREV
In July last year in Phnom Penh, Cambodia's capital, Second
Prime Minister Hun Sen staged a successful coup d'etat against
First Prime Minister Prince Norodom Ranariddh. Ranariddh's
loyalists, including Nhek Bunchhay, his top military commander,
went into hiding or fled the capital.	PREV
Nhek Bunchhay, evading an intensive manhunt, made his way to
O'Smach, the last major outpost held by Ranariddh's forces. His men
have held the stronghold _ which is on the border just opposite the
Thai province of Surin _ against repeated intense attacks by Hun
Sen's troops. They have been aided by Khmer Rouge guerrillas from
Anlong Veng, who have formed an alliance with Ranariddh's
resistance forces to oppose Hun Sen.	CIRC

PARIS (AP) _ France expressed optimism Thursday about U.N.
Secretary General Kofi Annan's visit to Baghdad, with the Foreign
Ministry saying a diplomatic solution was still possible.	LEAD
Annan is expected to arrive in Paris early Thursday evening for
meetings with French President Jacques Chirac and Foreign Minister
Hubert Vedrine before leaving for Iraq on Friday morning.	EXPE
``We will reiterate our support for the Secretary General's
mission, which should lead to a diplomatic solution of the
crisis,'' French Foreign Ministry spokesman Yves Doutriaux told a
regular news briefing Thursday.	VERB
France has cautioned the United States against leading a
military strike against Baghdad in the belief that Saddam Hussein
may still back down and agree to unrestricted access for U.N.
weapons inspectors to all sites.	CIRC
Chirac was expected to stress to Annan that France wants a
peaceful solution to the crisis. Unlike Britain, France has not
contributed to a buildup of Western forces in the Persian Gulf.	EVAL
France's interior minister, an outspoken critic of U.S. policy
in the Gulf, has criticized what he called ``American diplomacy's
will for war'' and said the United States should have shown such
resolve during World War II.	VERB
Under U.N. resolutions following the 1991 Gulf War that followed
Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, Baghdad must destroy its biological,
chemical and nuclear weapons programs before a U.N. trade embargo
can be lifted.
	   (parf-dgs)	CIRC

YAOUNDE, Cameroon (AP) _ The death toll in a massive rail tanker
car explosion has climbed to 221 with authorities on Wednesday
reporting an additional 84 fatalities.	LEAD
Authorities said the new casualties included wounded people who
later died in hospital and bodies of victims taken from the scene
before being accounted for.	VERB
Foreign aid workers said they were working around the clock to
save the lives of the remaining wounded _ many with severe burns to
most of their bodies.	VERB
``We shall do the impossible to make sure the rest survive,''
said Bernard Viala, the head of a French emergency medical team in
Yaounde.	VERB
Investigators were still probing the site where two tanker cars
rolled loose on the train tracks, derailed and then ruptured on
Saturday. The gushing petroleum ignited and set off a powerful
explosion, instantly killing dozens of bystanders.	MAIN
The investigation results are not expected to be released until
the end of March or early April.	EXPE
While the cause of the explosion has not been determined, police
said it may have been purposefully triggered. Several bystanders
had threatened to start a fire when police forced them away from
the crash site.	VERB
Several Cameroon government ministers blamed the great loss of
life on some of the victims themselves _ bystanders and motorists
who had rushed to the scene to scoop up the spilling fuel to use in
their automobiles.	VERB
Army volunteers continued burying many victims who were burned
beyond recognition in mass graves. Other corpses have been returned
to their families for private burial.	CONS

MOSCOW (AP) _ Two Russians and a Frenchman left the Mir and
endured a rough landing on the snow-covered plains of Central Asia
on Thursday. But no one was hurt as the crew completed a successful
mission on the 12th anniversary of the space station's launch.	LEAD
Cosmonauts Anatoly Solovyov and Pavel Vinogradov and French
astronaut Leopold Eyharts were briefly buffeted about in their
Soyuz space capsule when they touched down in the empty steppe of
central Kazakstan, the ITAR-Tass news agency reported, citing
Mission Control officials.	MAIN
It took the crew three hours to descend from the Mir, 400
kilometers (250 miles) above Earth.	MAIN
Space officials were worried beforehand about a blizzard that
raged through former Soviet republic on Wednesday evening and early
Thursday. They considered delaying the crew's return, but gave the
go-ahead when the weather improved.	CIRC
``Guys, don't you worry, the weather is getting better,''
Mission Control Chief Vladimir Solovyov told the crew.	VERB
Still, strong winds at the landing site dragged the tiny landing
capsule across the steppe as it touched down. Deep snow helped
cushion the impact, ITAR-Tass reported.	MAIN
Immediately after the landing, the trio was put on a flight to
Moscow for routine medical checkups.	CONS
The two Russians arrived on the Mir last August when the
troubled space station was hobbled by a number of breakdowns,
including a reduced power supply.	PREV
But Solovyov and Vinogradov performed several successful repair
missions. The station is now back at close to full power and has
not had any major problems in recent months.	PREV
Solovyov, one of the most experienced space flyers ever,
celebrated his 50th birthday during his six-month space voyage. He
completed his fifth mission on the Mir and has now spent more than
20 months in space.	PREV
This was Vinogradov's first stint on the Mir, while Eyharts was
aboard for the past three weeks conducting scientific experiments.	CIRC
The Mir was launched on Feb. 19, 1986, and was expected to
remain in operation for only five years. A series of near disasters
last year, including a fire, computer breakdowns, and a collision
with a cargo ship, raised doubts about the Mir's safety.	HIST
But Russian space officials want to keep the spacecraft manned
at least until next year, when an new international space station
is put aloft.	EXPE
Russians Talgat Musabayev and Nikolai Budarin and American
Andrew Thomas remain aboard the Mir.
	   (vi/gm)	CIRC

DURA, West Bank (AP) _ Israeli policemen fired live rounds in
the air Thursday to disperse hundreds of young Palestinians who
blocked a major West Bank road to show their support for Saddam
Hussein.	LEAD
The confrontation began when elementary and high school students
marched and burned Israeli and U.S. flags in Dura, a West Bank town
that remains under Israeli security control.	MAIN
At one point, the marchers blocked the main road running through
Dura with boulders, and hurled rocks at an Israeli police van and
settler cars. The four policemen in the van called for backup and
then fired in the air with pistols and assault rifles.	MAIN
Three more vans and an Israeli army jeep arrived a few minutes
later. There were no immediate reports of injury.	MAIN
After a while, the shooting stopped and Israeli soldiers began
firing tear gas and rubber bullets at the demonstrators. Troops
chased stone throwers into the fields. Two Palestinians were
injured by rubber bullets and six were overcome by tear gas.	MAIN
The incident marked the most serious confrontation between
Israeli troops and Palestinians since pro-Iraq demonstrations began
in the West Bank several weeks ago.	CIRC
The rallies often ended in stone throwing clashes, but until now
Israeli troops have fired only rubber bullets, not live ammunition.
The Palestinian Authority has banned pro-Iraq rallies, but that ban
has been widely ignored.	PREV
The Palestinian Authority has also prohibited Palestinian radio
and television stations from broadcasting commentary in support of
Saddam or footage of demonstrations. The ban came under pressure
from the United States.	PREV
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, who paid a heavy price for his
open support of Saddam during the 1991 Gulf War, has been carefully
neutral in his statements, saying he would like to see a diplomatic
solution to the conflict.	HIST
In the West Bank town of Ramallah, Palestinian police prevented
a planned pro-Iraq rally by the Palestinian Professionals' Union.
Police told organizers they would be breaking the law if they went
ahead and the marchers left quietly.	PREV
The march in Dura began Thursday morning with about 800 school
students waving Iraqi and Palestinian flags and urging Saddam
Hussein to fire missiles at Israel.	MAIN
``With our spirit and our blood, we will redeem Iraq,'' and
``Saddam, Saddam, our beloved, hit Tel Aviv,'' shouted the about
800 elementary and high school students.	VERB
Demonstrators burned six Israeli and two U.S. flags and several
held up a banner reading ``Why do the Iraqi people have to pay the
price for Clinton's affairs?''	MAIN

SRINAGAR, India (AP) _ Police fired tear gas to disperse
stone-throwing protesters during an anti-election strike in the
capital of volatile Kashmir state Friday, a day ahead of
parliamentary elections.	LEAD
Local news agencies reported no injuries in the clashes.	CIRC
Muslim groups who want Kashmir to be independent of India have
called another strike in Srinagar on Saturday, as well as an
election boycott. Their opposition and cold weather in the
Himalayan state are likely to keep turnout low.	CIRC
Shops were closed and government offices deserted Friday. Small
groups of protesters gathered at several spots in Srinagar.	MAIN
Eight leaders of the separatist All Party Hurriyat Conference
have been arrested since Wednesday for asking people to boycott the
voting, said state Chief Secretary Ashok Jaitly.	PREV
On Friday, angry Hurriyat activists hurled stones at
paramilitary forces protesting the arrest of their leaders. Police
fired 150 tear gas shells to disperse the protesters who fought
hit-and-run battles throughout Friday.	MAIN
Temperatures were just above freezing in Srinagar, with a foot
(30 centimeters) of snow on the ground following storms that shut
down air and road traffic earlier in the week.	CIRC
Voting scheduled in Srinagar and elsewhere in India on Saturday,
the fourth of six days of balloting, will wrap up all but a few
parliamentary races. Counting begins the following Monday, and a
new parliament and prime minister are expected to be seated by
mid-March.	CIRC
Paramilitary troops took up positions Thursday at schools and
government offices, where the voting will be held in Srinagar, 600
kilometers (375 miles) north of New Delhi. Suspected militants
lobbed a grenade into a school as troops took up position, but no
one was injured.	PREV
Paramilitary forces guarded 1,000 polling stations set up in
Srinagar district, where 850,000 voters are registered. The state
capital has been the center of a nine-year insurgency by Muslims
militants fighting for independence from India or for merger with
neighboring Pakistan, which is officially Islamic. Kashmir is the
only Muslim majority state in overwhelmingly Hindu India.	HIST
The main parliamentary contenders _ the centrist Congress party
and the Hindu-nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party _ have made
stability a central issue in the campaign.	CIRC
More than 70 people died in election-related violence during the
first three voting days and during campaigning, mostly in the
eastern state of Bihar, where unrest is blamed on caste tensions
and criminals. Another 58 people died in a series of bombings in
southern India linked to Hindu-Muslim tensions exacerbated by
campaign rhetoric.	PREV

JERUSALEM (AP) _ Taking the stand in her own defense, a friend
of Yitzhak Rabin's assassin said Friday that she regretted calling
the prime minister a traitor and praying for his death.	LEAD
Margalit Har-Shefi, 22, has pleaded innocent to charges that she
failed to report Yigal Amir's plan to kill Rabin. She took the
stand for more than four hours Friday in a Tel Aviv magistrate's
court.	MAIN
Amir, 27, is serving a life sentence for the November 1995
assassination of Rabin at a Tel Aviv peace rally. Newspaper reports
have said Amir was infatuated with Har-Shefi and may have been
trying to impress her by killing the prime minister.	HIST
Har-Shefi acknowledged she told police interrogators that Rabin
was a traitor and that she prayed for him to have a heart attack
and die. She said Rabin's murder was ``a black stain on Israel,''
Israel radio and Israel army radio reported.	VERB
Har-Shefi said she heard Amir talk about killing Rabin but did
not tell the police because she did not believe he was serious.	VERB
Instead, she turned to her community rabbi in the Jewish West Bank
settlement of Beit El and told him about Amir's statements. The
rabbi said called the talk about killing Rabin ``nonsense,'' and
said Jews are prohibited from killing one another, the radio
reports said.	PREV
Har-Shefi described Amir as an ``original thinker,'' as well as
delusional and a liar.	VERB
She also denied accusations made by Amir's brother, Hagai, that
she joined an anti-Arab underground movement. She said she gave the
Amir brothers false information regarding the location of a weapons
and ammunition cache when they asked her to help organize such a
movement.	VERB

BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP) _ An American leader of a U.N. weapons
inspection team resumed work in Iraq Friday, nearly two months
after his team was effectively blocked.	LEAD
Scott Ritter led his team on a 10-hour tour of three suspected
weapons sites classified as ``sensitive'' by the Iraqi authorities,
U.N. spokesman Alan Dacey said.	MAIN
``All sites were inspected to the satisfaction of the inspection
team and with full cooperation of Iraqi authorities,'' Dacey said.
At least one of the sensitive sites was a barracks of the elite
Republican Guard, a well-placed source told The Associated Press.
Previously the Iraqis have resisted attempts to inspect such
quarters.	VERB
The U.N. Security Council has charged the inspectors with
verifying that Iraq has destroyed its long-range missiles and
weapons of mass destruction.	CIRC
It was the first time that Ritter, who arrived Thursday with
some 50 inspectors for a tour likely to last over a week, had been
allowed to carry out an inspection since Jan. 13.	CIRC
Then the Baghdad government stopped providing Ritter's team with
escorts, making it impossible for him to enter any site. Iraq
alleged Ritter was an American spy whose team had a
disproportionately high number of Americans and Britons.	PREV
The official Iraqi News Agency, which gives the daily tally of
inspections, did not mention Ritter by name, but said Friday that
team no. 225 _ which Ritter heads _ made surprise visits to a
number of sites and was assisted by aerial surveillance.
Five other U.N. inspection teams visited a total of nine other
sites, the agency reported.	MAIN
An Iraqi official, speaking on customary condition of anonymity,
said Ritter would not try to visit any of the eight presidential
sites that Baghdad had placed off-limits to U.N. weapons
inspectors.	VERB
The official said these sites could only be visited by a special
team of U.N. monitors and diplomats as laid down by the Feb. 23
accord signed by U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and Iraqi Deputy
Prime Minister Tariq Aziz.	CIRC
Ritter's return is seen as something of a test of that
agreement, under which Iraq agreed to give inspectors full access
to eight of Saddam Hussein's presidential palaces.	EVAL
The United States had moved additional troops and a naval armada
into the Gulf and said it would strike Iraq unless it gave the U.N.
arms inspectors unfettered access to all potential weapons sites,
including Saddam's palaces. Iraq had argued the presidential sites
should be off limits as symbols of sovereignty.	VERB
A Pentagon spokesman said Thursday that the 38,000 U.S. troops
in the Gulf will remain until Iraq complies with the U.N. Security
Council agreement over weapons inspections.	VERB
``We are going to maintain our forces in the region for the
foreseeable future,'' said spokesman Kenneth Bacon.	VERB
The U.N.-Iraq accord was worked out by U.N. Secretary-General
Kofi Annan, who appointed a retired Indian diplomat on Thursday as
his special representative to Iraq. Prakash Shah, 58, a former
Indian ambassador to the United Nations, is part of an effort by
Annan to expand contacts with the Iraqi leadership.	PREV
Palace inspections are not expected to start until the new
agreement's procedures are in place. U.N. officials in New York on
Friday finished drafting the rules, in consultation with Iraqi
diplomats. The procedures are due to go before the Security Council
next week.	EXPE
The Security Council has said it will not lift the sweeping
sanctions imposed on Iraq after its 1990 invasion of Kuwait until
the U.N. inspectors certify that Baghdad has eliminated its weapons
of mass destruction.	VERB

ISTANBUL, Turkey (AP) _ Some 1,500 ethnic Albanians marched
Sunday in downtown Istanbul, burning Serbian flags to protest the
killings of ethnic Albanians by Serb police in southern Serb Kosovo
province.	LEAD
The police barred the crowd from reaching the Yugoslavian
consulate in downtown Istanbul, but allowed them to demonstrate on
nearby streets.	MAIN
``Stop the bloodshed in Kosovo,'' the protesters chanted.	VERB
Meanwhile in the capital, Ankara, a few hundred ethnic Albanians
laid a black wreath at the gate of Yugoslavian embassy.	MAIN
Ethnic Albanians comprise 90 percent of the population in
Kosovo, but Serbs maintain control through a large military and
police presence. Serbian police say they are trying to eliminate
the pro-independence Kosovo Liberation Army and restore order.	CIRC
At least 51 people were reported killed in clashes between Serb
police and ethnic Albanians in the troubled region in recent days.
Turkey, worried about civil war in Kosovo spilling to the whole
Balkans, urged all Balkan states to sign a joint declaration that
the Kosovo crisis be solved peacefully and without any change of
borders.	PREV
Turks feel they have special ties to the whole region, which
they ruled for hundreds of years during the Ottoman Empire. They
also share Islam with the ethnic Albanians.	CIRC

RAINY PASS, Alaska (AP) _ Five-time champion Rick Swenson wasted
no time moving to the front of the pack in the Iditarod Trail Sled
Dog Race.	LEAD
Swenson on Monday was the first musher to reach the Rainy Pass
checkpoint, which is tucked deep in the Alaska Range. He arrived 90
minutes ahead of his nearest competitor, Charlie Boulding of
Manley, Alaska. Vern Halter of Willow arrived just four minutes
after Boulding.	MAIN
With clear skies, the dog teams rested on beds of straw on
frozen Puntilla Lake, surrounded by spectacular views of craggy,
snow-covered peaks.	CIRC
Mitch Seavey of Sterling arrived in fourth place, two-time
champion Jeff King reached the checkpoint in fifth place. Mike
Nosko of Wasilla arrived at in sixth place and rookie Shawn
Sidelinger of Wasilla was in seventh.	CIRC
Mushers were pleased with snow conditions on the trail.	CIRC
``I can't imagine anyone complaining about the trail,'' said
musher Linwood Fiedler of Willow, who was first to leave the Finger
Lake checkpoint for the to Rainy Pass. ``It was a sprint trail as
far as I was concerned.''	VERB
Sixty-three teams _ including four past champions _ are entered
in this year's race, as well as 19 rookies and mushers from five
foreign countries.	CIRC
Swenson added interest to the 26th Iditarod by reentering after
being withdrawn in 1996 when a dog in his team died along the
trail.	HIST
Swenson, who has never finished lower than 10th in 20 Iditarods,
bitterly protested, and the decision was overturned last year. But
he sat out 1997 anyway.	HIST
Swenson has said he's running in part to honor his dog Ariel,
who died of apparent strangulation in 1996.	VERB
``I'm as confident as anyone,'' Swenson said.	VERB

MALAYSIA'S aggressive move into the information age could not
come in a more opportune time.	EVAL
With the convergence of communications and information
technologies (IT) coupled with the coming of age for the Internet
and its related technologies, the stage is set for Malaysians to
seize the chance to transform into a knowledge society and become
worthy opponents/players in the global market space.	MAIN
The Internet, the global network of computers, is now far
reaching into the country - extending its embrace to include every
nook and cranny of the nation - opening doors to not only a diverse
range of information sources but also an exhaustive list of
possibilities to create new applications which add value to
people's lives.	CIRC
In the business world, the Internet - through intranet and
extranet solutions - has become an invaluable tool for companies to
harness so as to gain a competitive edge.	EVAL
The solutions are also vital components in developing the
borderless marketing flagship application which is a vital element
for spearheading the development of the Multimedia Super Corridor
(MSC) project.	EVAL
The application will create the necessary framework and
infrastructure to support electronic commerce (e-commerce)
initiatives in the country.	EXPE
However, it is important to note that installing or implementing
Internet technologies for technology's sake would not ensure
instant success.	EVAL
For e-commerce to flourish with full-blown end-to-end business
transactions, strategic planning which incorporates both business
and technology plans that are complementary is necessary for an
organisation to see feasible returns on investment.	EVAL
Intranets, through the use of Internet technology, are
positioned as a platform for companies to optimise, expand and
transform new channels of business.	EVAL
When strategically implemented, an intranet solution will
provide the ability to mediate mission-critical, decision support
functions in organisations. It will also help further improve
communications and collaboration at all levels in an organisation.
With intranets in place, it is only logical for organisations to
respectively link the network to other companies' for extended
business purposes through extranets.	EVAL
While this will enable the sharing of information among
enterprises, security issues such as firewalls and encryption as
well as access and control procedures, and the trust levels that
enterprises have with each other will emerge and there will be a
need to address them.	EXPE
Other than usage in business, Internet technology is also
beginning to infiltrate the lifestyle domain. ``Smart homes'' have
emerged bringing a wealth of information and entertainment to
families over telecommunications lines.	CIRC
The art of socialising is also experiencing a change where
Net/virtual relationships are fast overtaking or becoming parallel
with the normal human relationships.	CIRC
Whether this would prove positive or otherwise towards society
in the future is yet to be seen.	EVAL
All in all, the Internet has a lot to offer. However, its value
and benefits are only as good as how we use it.	EVAL

AMMAN, Jordan (AP) _ King Hussein Sunday rebuked hard-line
political parties opposed to peace with Israel, saying they should
respect the majority opinion.	MAIN
Hussein said he has always accepted the opposition's right to
differ. But at the same time ``the prevailing opinion should be
that of the majority, and the opinion of the majority should be
respected,'' the monarch said.	VERB
Hussein's remarks in a ceremony marking the 45th anniversary of
his accession to the throne underlined his frustration with
mounting opposition to Jordan's 1994 peace treaty with Israel.
With the Palestinian-Israeli peace negotiations deadlocked, many
in Jordan's predominantly Palestinian population have became
critical of peace with Israel. But in the absence of opinion polls,
it is difficult to say how many Jordanians are for or against the
peace treaty.	CIRC
``Opposition can be on a certain policy or position, but
absolute opposition for the sake of opposition is not acceptable,''
Hussein said. Instead, he said, there must be ``dialogue and
consultations until we reach a consensus.''	VERB
Jordan's 13 hard-line political parties, espousing ideologies
ranging from Muslim fundamentalism to communism, have no seats in
the 80-member parliament. Still, they wield considerable influence
among the poor Palestinian refugees in Jordan.	CIRC
Palestinians displaced in the 1948 and 1967 Arab-Israeli wars
make up roughly two-thirds of Jordan's 3.8 million population.
&UR; jah/vj	PREV

HOTEL recruits, early in their careers, are taught to always
have a smile ready. These days, however, their employers - hotel
and resort operators - are finding it increasingly difficult to
stretch those facial muscles.	LEAD
After many years of strong growth, local hoteliers are now
treading the downward trajectory of their cyclical industry, and
with rock bottom still far ahead, there's more reason to be glum
than smiling.	MAIN
The root cause of the industry's troubles, ironically, stemmed
from optimism about the future. With one of the fastest growing
economies in the world, Malaysia seemed a sure bet for putting up a
hotel or resort.	EVAL
After all, it had continuously attracted ever more business and
holiday travellers.	CIRC
But even as new hotels were rapidly springing up, warning bells
were set off as early as 1995. New hotel rooms coming onstream in
most parts of Malaysia far outstripped the increase in tourist
arrivals, and occupancy levels and room rates in most states had
begun to fall by the end of 1996.	HIST
The stage was being set for a showdown in the hotel industry.
This was before the ugly, choking pall of smoke known as the
haze blanketed Southeast Asia and scared off several million
business and holiday tourists from the region. Thanks to the haze,
tourist arrivals in 1997 were almost 17% lower than the year
before, the first time in decades there had been a drop in the
number of arrivals to Malaysia.	EVAL
Analysts tracking the hotel sector said occupancy levels in 1997
fell 5- 10% from 1996's figures, partly due to the bad publicity
Malaysia received during the year, and partly because there were
lots more rooms on the market. Hotels in the country, on average,
enjoyed occupancy levels of 62.5% in 1996, although city hotels
boasted a figure of 70-75%.	VERB
For 1988, an even more severe fall is predicted as more hotel
rooms come into service and competition heats up. Analysts said 13
five-star hotels with a total of 7,678 rooms and 24 three- and
four-star hotels with around 8,680 rooms are being built
nationwide. This would more than double the existing stock of
three, four- and five-star hotel rooms in Malaysia.	EXPE
In Kuala Lumpur alone, some 13,161 hotel rooms were under
construction in 1997, with another 18,165 rooms in the pipeline
(though no doubt some projects have been dropped because of the
economic slowdown). For comparison, the city at the time had barely
17,000 rooms.	CIRC
Selangor, meanwhile, is expected to have more than 10,000 hotel
rooms by the time the Commonwealth Games take place, about twice
the existing supply of 5,640 rooms. The Ministry of Finance's 1997
Property Market report says the situation is pretty much the same
in most of the other states.	CIRC
`The signs were already there, this overbuilding. Even in 1995
the signs were there,' a puzzled Low Gee Tat, managing director of
Federal Hotels International, told Investors Digest.	VERB
`We were already feeling the pinch then. Although occupancy was
still OK, the rates stank. The sheer difficulty in operating just
eroded into our bottom line. It was difficult to get staff,
competition was intense - it was a very difficult situation to
operate in.	VERB
`Somehow, somewhere, the developers that went into the business
in recent years read the wrong signals or got the wrong advice or
whatever, because the signs were definitely there. There's really a
big glut in this country, a huge glut.' Federal Hotels
International (FHI) is the hotel arm of the Low Yat group, one of
Malaysia's largest property developers. They were the first to
build and operate an international class hotel in Malaysia - The
Federal Kuala Lumpur - in 1957.	VERB
Today, FHI has a chain of four- and five-star hotels, five of
which are run jointly with Inter-Continental Hotels &AMP; Resorts.
Inked on November 1996, the `strategic alliance' gave birth to
Federal Inter-Continental Hotels and Resorts Malaysia, of which Low
is the chairman. The hotels in FHI's line-up, besides The Federal,
are The Capitol Kuala Lumpur, Crown Princess Inter-Continental
Kuala Lumpur, Forum Fairlane Hotel Kuala Lumpur, the Ferringhi
Beach Hotel Penang, and the Marina Mirage Inter- Continental Penang
(opening soon). Overseas, FHI owns the Forum The Grace Hotel Sydney
and Rushcutters Bay Sydney (opening 1999), in Australia.
Low explained that with occupancy levels falling because rooms
outnumbered tourists, hoteliers came under pressure to lower room
rates.	CIRC
But four- and five-star hotels in Malaysia were always among the
cheapest in the world, if not the cheapest, he said. `For the
service and quality you get, room rates have never been on the high
side.' Operating costs on the other hand were soaring. Trouble was
indeed brewing (see story on hotel stocks).	VERB
Then came the haze in the later half of 1977, which forced
hoteliers to drastically lower their already low rates just to fill
some rooms. As a result profit margins and yields were eroded
further, and the books of many hotel operators blushed scarlet.
`It was an undeclared price war,' Low admitted, `but that is an
ugly word. After that knock by the haze, a lot of hotels had to do
it out of necessity. They had to survive. They didn't do it to
increase market share or as strategy - it was like scraping the
barrel just to get some occupancy.' Things haven't improved much
this year. The first quarter has traditionally been slow for
city-based hotels, but this year `it's been slower than normal,'
noted Low. `The ideal situation for January to March in a decent
year is an occupancy rate of 70-75% with good (room) rates, but so
far this year the average occupancy has been between 50 and 55% and
room rates have also come down.' FHI had foreseen a few years ago
that the future would be tougher, and had implemented counteracting
strategies, he said. Nevertheless, FHI's bottomline has not escaped
unscathed.	VERB
`There's no way we can operate a hotel the way we did even five
years ago,' said Low. `We had to become more efficient, more
productive and more innovative. We've done that and we are still
doing that. We've had to change the cost structure and we are
changing the manning structure.	VERB
`From these basic infrastructural changes, we got into a
position to really look at our products and to know our market. If
we had to, we changed our products to suit the market.' Once the
products (hotel rooms and special packages) had been fine- tuned,
FHI focused on the domestic market and went all out to retain the
customers it had by making it `even more value-for-money for them,
to give them even more reason to stay with us.' At the same time,
FHI aggressively tried to tap new overseas markets, especially in
East Europe and the United States. Low said the group already had a
representative office in Europe which not only pushed FHI's hotels
but also promoted Malaysia as a holiday and business destination.
`There must be a reason for them to come here in the first
place,' he pointed out.	VERB
Some analysts predict it would take at least until the end of
1999 before visitor arrivals grow large enough to start pushing up
occupancy levels nationwide. The estimate, however, assumes that
the haze doesn't become an annual blight.	VERB
But behind every dark cloud is a silver lining. It seems ironic
that the economic downturn may provide some respite to the
industry. Some hotel projects are unlikely to be implemented now
and the weak Ringgit will also discourage travelling abroad, and
thus encourage domestic tourism.	EXPE
Besides, the devaluation makes it cheaper for foreigners to
visit Malaysia.	EVAL
Furthermore, Low said the current problems are pushing hotel
owners and operators into working together for the good of all.
`We've met and discussed some issues,' he said. `There are many
areas we can work together but at the moment I'm not at liberty to
reveal them. One obvious area, however, where we can cooperate is
by marketing the country together, to give foreigners a reason to
come and stay in our hotels.' On their part, the authorities could
promote in addition to the Commonwealth Games, other world-class
sporting and cultural events in Malaysia, he said. This would
generate global publicity and tempt some foreigners to visit.	VERB
But all these are ideas yet to be implemented. Who knows what
will happen in the future? For now, one thing is for sure. While it
may be difficult for hotel owners and operators to smile in these
tough times, frontline employees will be under strict orders to
flash those pearly whites at the few they serve.	EVAL

JARJOU, Lebanon (AP) _ Hezbollah guerrillas took turns Sunday to
leave the front lines in southern Lebanon and vote in municipal
elections that is likely to endorse their fight against Israeli
occupation.	LEAD
Candidates backed by the pro-Iranian Shiite Hezbollah group are
contesting most of the 1,589 posts in southern Lebanon, a
predominantly Shiite region.	CIRC
``I voted for Hezbollah's candidates because they are defending
our land and offering public services with or without municipal
elections,'' said Umm Mohammed, a veiled mother of two children.
The roads from Jarjou and other villages in Iqlim al-Tuffah
province were festooned with the Hezbollah's banners and flags as
well as portraits of Iran's late revolutionary leader, Ayatollah
Khomeini.	VERB
Iqlim al-Tuffah is a Hezbollah mountain stronghold that faces
the part of South Lebanon that Israel occupies with the help of a
Lebanese militia. Hezbollah has led the fight to oust the Israelis.	CIRC
``Today's voting is part of the resistance against Israeli
occupation,'' said Fawzi Darwish, a 34-year-old businessman in
Jarjou, which is only 400 meters (yards) from Israeli outposts at
Sojod. Darwish said he voted for pro-Hezbollah candidates.
No voting was held in the Israeli-occupied area.	VERB
Zeinab Khafaja, who lost her guerrilla brother to a battle
against the Israelis, said it was her holy duty to vote for
Hezbollah.	VERB
``It's a vote between the good and evil,'' said the 35-year-old
mother of four.	VERB
Hezbollah fighters also participated in the elections, leaving
their weapons at the front line to walk unarmed to the polling
booths.	MAIN
Guerrilla leaders rotated the fighters to make sure that the
front line was not unmanned at any time, said Haj Adnan Naameh, a
Hezbollah official, in nearby Jubaa, home to 4,000 people.	VERB
``The fighter has a primary right to vote,'' he said.	VERB
The front lines were generally quiet Sunday and voting was
peaceful as troops in armored vehicles patrolled the villages and
guarded polling stations.	CIRC
But the electoral battle was heated between Hezbollah and the
pro-Syrian mainstream Amal movement, also a Shiite group. The
victorious group will be seen as the voice of the nation's Shiites
who number 1.2 million among Lebanon's 3.2 million people.	EVAL
Besides the Shiite fight, the elections _ the first municipal
polls in 35 years _ also are seen as proof that Lebanon's
Christians and Muslims are willing to join hands in building
democracy after the devastating 1975-90 civil war.
Voting was also held Sunday in Beirut, 50 kilometers (30 miles)
northwest of Jarjou. The vote was the third segment of the
four-stage elections organized over four consecutive Sundays.
&UR; hd/sfg/vj	EVAL

DAVOS, Switzerland _ Asia's economic meltdown has spurred all
sorts of would-be geo-architects to try to design some new, global
mechanism that will regulate international capital flows and
miraculously prevent global investors and speculators from ever
again wreaking havoc.	LEAD
I am deeply skeptical about such ideas _ not because I oppose
tempering market excesses, but because I think that trying to do it
on a global scale is nearly impossible. Risk, fear, greed and
excess are intrinsic to markets. You cannot legislate them out
without paying a huge price.	EVAL
What's interesting is that while Westerners are trying to
redesign the market, the Thais, Koreans and Mexicans at this year's
Davos World Economic Forum were focused on redesigning themselves.	CIRC
They think their solution is better local government, not global
government. Their countries were like 50-watt bulbs plugged into
250-watt sockets, and when the surge came from the electronic herd
of global investors, they blew up. Their reaction is to try to
protect themselves with better governance, better regulation and
more transparency at home. Which is why both Thailand and Korea
elected the most democratic parties in their countries at the
depths of this economic crisis.	MAIN
``There are some voices saying that perhaps integration has gone
too far and too quickly _ especially in financial markets,''
Mexico's president, Ernesto Zedillo, told me. ``Well, I happen to
believe just the opposite. Globalization poses challenges, but it
offers tremendous opportunities. The fact that finance capital can
move instantaneously indeed poses a risk, but jumping from that to
say that we need to control movements of capital is totally
wrong.''	VERB
Yes, added Zedillo, we need a strong IMF to help in emergencies
and to detect distortions in countries or individual banks. But at
the end of the day, he said, ``all of these financial flows end up
in a local financial system, or as resources to be lent by local
banks. What we have to look at is whether these (local) financial
systems are sufficiently installing good banking and financial
practices.''	VERB
The Thai prime minister, Chuan Leekpai, told me: ``If you are
going to be part of this global market you had better be able to
defend yourself from this market ... One of the lessons this crisis
has taught us is that many of our structures and institutions were
not ready for this new era. Now we have to adapt ourselves to meet
international standards. The whole of society expects it. They are
looking for better government and transparent government.''	VERB
You Jong-keun, the chief economic policy adviser to South
Korea's newly elected president, said: ``In the past, the Korean
government used its political muscle to emasculate the rights of
shareholders, and business leaders were given power to make
irresponsible business decisions. We are going to strengthen the
rights of shareholders and help make sure that business decisions
are taken in an accountable fashion.''	VERB
As Bob Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International,
put it: ``If your domestic institutions are strong, then you don't
need very strong global institutions. If domestic institutions
inside countries are weak, it won't matter how strong your global
institutions are. They will not be effective.''	VERB
Democracy does not guarantee that you will never have an
economic crisis. We know that. Markets overshoot. Investors take
crazy risks. But the more democratic, accountable and open your
governance, especially as an emerging market, the less likely it is
that your financial system will be exposed to surprises, the easier
it will be for you to improve and adapt when it is, and the more
legitimacy your government will have to share the pain when change
is required.	EVAL
Of those Asian nations who were fully plugged into the market
(China is not), those with the most non-corrupt, transparent and
accountable financial systems _ Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore _ have
been hurt the least. Those that had democratic, but corrupt,
systems _ Thailand and Korea _ were hurt the second worst, but at
least have been able to respond quickly by voting in better
governance. And the country that is going to melt down is
Indonesia, which remains plugged into the electronic herd, but its
corrupt, authoritarian regime can't adapt.	EVAL
``Look around the neighborhood,'' said the Thai finance
minister, Tarrin Nimmanahaeminda. ``Good governance is the only
real protection.''	VERB

WASHINGTON _ Following are statements made Friday and Thursday
by Lawrence Wechsler, a lawyer for the White House secretary, Betty
Currie; the White House; White House spokesman Mike McCurry, and
President Clinton in response to an article in The New York Times
on Friday about her statements regarding a meeting with the
president:	LEAD
Wechsler on Thursday	PREV
``Without commenting on the allegations raised in this article,
to the extent that there is any implication or suggestion that Mrs.
Currie was aware of any legal or ethical impropriety by anyone,
that implication or suggestion is entirely inaccurate.''	VERB
White House on Thursday	PREV
``For the past few weeks we've been subjected to false leaks
designed to mislead both reporters and the American public. We're
not going to dignify the latest false leak with a response.''	VERB
McCurry on Friday	PREV
``I want to be absolutely clear, to the extent there is any
implication or the slightest suggestion that Mrs. Currie believes
that the President or anyone else tried to influence her
recollection, that is absolutely false and a mischaracterization of
the facts. I am shocked and dismayed by the numerous leaks
regarding Mrs. Currie's grand jury testimony.''	VERB
Clinton on Friday.	PREV
``Once again, I never asked anybody to do anything but tell the
truth. I know about the stories today. I was pleased that Ms.
Currie's lawyers stated unambiguously this morning _ unambiguously
_ that she's not aware of any unethical conduct.	VERB

UNIONDALE, N.Y. _ Nearly five years ago, when the Islanders
drafted right wing Todd Bertuzzi in the first round and defenseman
Bryan McCabe in the second, the plan was to rebuild the
organization around them, as well as other talented young players.	HIST
But that vision will not be realized. In a move that left one
player teary-eyed and the other one rattled, the Islanders Friday
traded McCabe, the team's 22-year-old captain, and Bertuzzi, a
23-year-old underachiever, along with a 1998 third-round draft
pick, to the Vancouver Canucks. In exchange, the Islanders received
Trevor Linden, the marquee forward General Manager Mike Milbury had
sought for months.	MAIN
The trade came hours before a midnight deadline imposed by the
National Hockey League as part of a freeze over the next two and a
half weeks as many of the National Hockey League's players compete
at the Winter Olympics.	CIRC
With the Islanders struggling to score goals this season, the
opportunity to acquire Linden, a 27-year-old two-time All-Star and
former captain of the Canucks, was simply too good for Milbury to
pass up, no matter the asking price.	EVAL
``It's a big trade,'' Coach Rick Bowness said. ``It's a tough
trade, too. You're losing a couple of young guys in Bryan and Todd.
But if you want a player like Trevor Linden, you have to give up
something. Obviously, we are excited. He will be good for us.''
Linden has struggled in each of the last two seasons, suffering
injuries to both knees.	VERB
He said Friday evening by telephone that he had resumed skating
with the Canucks Friday morning and planned to play for the
Canadian Olympic team. Linden, a right wing who also plays center,
will not play for the Islanders on Saturday against the Devils at
Nassau Coliseum.	VERB
A 10-year veteran of the Canucks, Linden enjoyed his best season
in 1995-96 when he recorded 33 goals and 47 assists. He has 247
goals and 302 assists in 702 career games.	HIST
In addition to the injuries, Coach Mike Keenan's public
criticisms also made Linden unhappy. He was also upset after Mark
Messier replaced him as captain of the Canucks after Messier
arrived as a free agent at the start of the season.	CIRC
McCabe was teary-eyed after he received news of the trade.
Walking slowly down the hallway between the visitor and home-team
dressing rooms at Nassau Coliseum, he went into the Islanders'
room, stopped to speak to Bertuzzi for a moment, then collected his
personal items from his stall.	CONS
``I was shocked,'' McCabe said outside the Islanders' dressing
room. ``I'm more sad than anything. I've been with these guys for
three years. I don't want to leave the boys.''	VERB
Bertuzzi sounded more optimistic. ``Things weren't working out
here,'' said Bertuzzi, who had a disappointing seven goals and 11
assists in 52 games with the Islanders. ``I'm a little rattled, but
looking forward to the new start, nothing but good things.''	VERB

WASHINGTON _ Following are excerpts from a letter to the
independent counsel, Kenneth Starr, by President Clinton's personal
lawyer, David Kendall, as provided by Kendall:	LEAD
``The leaking by your office has reached an intolerable point.
The covert dissemination of both accurate and inaccurate
information by your staff violates Rule 6(e) of the Federal Rules
of Criminal Procedures, case law, Department of Justice guidelines,
rules of court and well-established ethical prohibitions. At your
press conference yesterday, you paid lip service to your legal and
ethical obligations, remarking that you could not respond
concerning the status of `someone who might be a witness' because
`that goes to the heart of the grand jury process.' ...	VERB
``Events of recent days make a mockery of your earnest verbal
professions. Far more accurate is your candid recognition that, `I
regret that there have been instances, so it would appear, when
that rule has not been abided by.' `So it would appear' hardly does
justice to the deluge of leaks which quite obviously stem from your
office. In the past four years, I have written you in confidence
about the various leaks that have occurred from your office. I am
making this letter public today because of the calculated tactic
your office is now employing of selectively releasing both
information  &UR; and falsehoods, &LR;  in an attempt to pressure,
manipulate, intimidate witnesses and possible witnesses, affect
public opinion in your favor and cause political harm to the
President. I intend to seek judicial relief from these tactics,
including contempt sanctions, as soon as practicable, under Rule 6
(e), Barry v. United States, 865 F.2d 1317 (D.C. Cir. 1989), and
other available legal doctrines.	VERB
``The appalling disregard for the legal and ethical requirements
of grand jury and investigative confidentiality and the cynical
dissemination of information and misinformation from your office
leads me to believe that you have lost control. These leaks are
deeply unfair and prejudicial. You have a solemn duty to ferret out
these leaks and regain command and control of your staff. The leaks
erode a fundamental and venerable principle of the grand jury (an
investigative body enshrined in the Bill of Rights to the
Constitution) that investigations shall be conducted in secret so
that those suspected but not charged with crimes will not have
their reputations besmirched, without having a forum in which to
cleanse those reputations.	VERB
``A report on Wednesday's NBC Nightly News illustrates, however,
what is now commonplace _ legally protected grand jury material
strategically leaked from your office. Matters have gotten so out
of hand that NBC's report on the immunity negotiations between your
office and Ms. Lewinsky looks very much like an independent counsel
press release. In the space of three paragraphs, the NBC
correspondent refers directly at least four times to `sources' in
your office. For example, she states that `sources in Starr's
office have told NBC news that the information Lewinsky's lawyers
were offering was simply not enough' and that ``sources in Starr's
office believe the ((talking points)) instructions came from the
White House.	VERB
``Perhaps more pernicious even is a leak two days ago to The
Wall Street Journal, purporting to recount the grand jury testimony
of a White House steward, Mr. Nelvis. We now know that the leak _
attributed to `two individuals familiar with his testimony,' which
is obviously a narrow group centered in your office _ is `totally
false.' Yet the report was nonetheless spread widely as though
true, and was extremely damaging both to the President and Mr.
Nelvis. It also broadcast to the world the kind of evidence you
would like to gather, inviting copycat `testimony' and the like.
That's a dangerous and destructive game to play in an alleged
search for the truth. It's why these investigations must be
conducted in secret and why the leaks must stop.	VERB
``Today's news reports offer more of the same. A front-page
article in today's New York Times is headlined `Aide's Statements
Are Said to Differ From President's,' and the passive voice tells
all. The article, a flagrant leak from your staff, purports to
report what the President's personal secretary, Ms. Betty Currie,
has told `investigators'  &UR; (i.e. your agents), &LR;  and these statements
are sourced to `lawyers familiar with her account'  &UR; (i.e. your
legal staff) &LR; . This combination is repeated throughout the article:	VERB
``Paragraph 1: `President Clinton's personal secretary has told
investigators ... according to lawyers familiar with her account.'
``Paragraph 4&AMP;5: `Mrs. Currie has told investigators ... the
lawyers said. The lawyers also said. ...'
``Paragraph 6: `Mrs. Currie has told investigators ... the
lawyers said.'
``Paragraphs 12 &AMP; 17: `Mrs. Currie has been extensively
interviewed by agents and prosecutors from Mr. Starr's office. ...
According to the account provided by the lawyers, Mrs. Currie said.
...'	VERB
``And so on. Mrs. Currie's own lawyer has stated that, except
for the one sentence statement explicitly attributed to him in the
article, this information did not come from Mrs. Currie or her
attorneys. In context, the `lawyers familiar with the inquiry,' so
frequently quoted in the article, are plainly members of your
staff.	VERB
``The NBC report, The Wall Street Journal account and today's
New York Times article are not anomalies. Over the past two weeks,
there have been numerous such selective leaks directly traceable to
your office _ the accuracy of which, I might add, are often highly
suspect. ...	VERB
``As I have repeatedly pointed out previously in my letters over
the past four years, and as you must be aware, it is illegal and
wrong to attempt to manipulate witnesses and possible witnesses,
the press, the public and our system of justice by selectively
leaking information _ accurate or otherwise. Rule 6(e) of the
Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, the ABA Standards for Criminal
Justice Relating to Prosecution Function and Fair Trials, the
National Prosecution Standards published by the National District
Attorneys Association, and the Rules of Professional Conduct for
the District of Columbia, among other professional codes of
conduct, all forbid leaks of purported confidential information of
the kind that have sprung from your office. ...	VERB
``The public disclosure of grand jury and investigative
information not only violates Rule 6(e) (2), it runs afoul of
ethical and professional standards of conduct for attorneys,
prosecutors, and executive branch officials. The ABA Standards for
Criminal Justice relating to the Prosecution Function provide that
`((a)) prosecutor should not make or authorize the making of an
extrajudicial statement that a reasonable person would expect to be
disseminated by means of public communication if the prosecutor
knows or reasonably should know that it will have a substantial
likelihood of prejudicing a criminal proceeding.' ...	VERB
``Well, first of all, The Associated Press is reporting tonight
that Ken Starr's office has rejected an immunity deal put forward
by Monica Lewinsky's lawyers, and sources in Starr's office have
told NBC News that the information Lewinsky's lawyers were offering
was simply not enough. ... The two sides aren't even on the same
page. They don't rule out an eventual deal, but they say right now
Starr wants to focus on accelerating his investigation.	VERB
``And NBC News has learned more about another critical piece of
evidence. A memo first discovered by Newsweek that Linda Tripp
claims was given to her by Monica Lewinsky. The memo appears to be
instructions on how to lie to Paula Jones's attorneys in her suit
against the President. Page one of the talking points obtained by
NBC weeks ago, was written, according to experts, in a semi-legal
language which would be unusual to come from a 24-year-old. The
second two pages, obtained by NBC today, are less formal, as if
they could be notes _ more instructions to Tripp on what to say to
help the White House. In one passage, the notes suggest that Tripp
should ignore her own lawyer's advice. `He has been saying you
should look neutral. Better for credibility,' it reads, `that you
aren't neutral.'	VERB
``Sources in Starr's office and close to Linda Tripp say they
believe the instructions came from the White House. If true, that
could help support a case of obstruction of justice. But sources
also tell NBC News Lewinsky has not agreed to discuss any of that
with Starr. And some of the additional language in the second two
pages of the memo is Pentagon jargon. That indicates that Lewinsky,
who had worked at the Pentagon, could have at least had a hand in
crafting the memo. One theory, Lewinsky wrote it on her computer,
but with the help of someone else, most likely a lawyer. Sources
say that's one reason why Ken Starr seized Lewinsky's computer. And
they also tell us from Starr's office that they figure the most
corroborating evidence they gather, either that helps their case
against the president, or it will help eventually make a better
deal with Monica Lewinsky.''	VERB

The New York Times said in an editorial for Saturday, Feb. 7:
When the subject turns to animals, most politicians turn
irrational. There is no better evidence than bills passed in
Congress dramatically changing public housing policy. Both House
and Senate versions have an avowed aim of giving more control to
the local authorities. But on one issue, both chambers went in the
opposite direction by stripping local housing administrators of the
right to ban pets from their projects.	LEAD
Large dogs bred for fighting have become a safety hazard in some
projects. Even peaceable animals can turn playgrounds into health
hazards or create misery for an entire floor of tenants by barking
or using the hallways as a bathroom. Animal advocates _ with a big
assist from the pet food lobby _ say these problems should be dealt
with on a case-by-case basis. That might work well in smaller
projects or where ferocious pit bulls are not high-testosterone
status symbols. But in New York City, where more than half a
million people live in public housing, that approach fails.	CIRC
Except in projects for the elderly, the New York City Housing
Authority theoretically bans dogs. But the authority actually
follows a live-and-let-live policy unless building workers or
neighbors complain that a family is keeping a dangerous or noisy
animal. Getting rid of those bad apples then becomes a long,
difficult and expensive process. The authority has had to initiate
eviction proceedings against 300 families who refused to get rid of
their animals until they were faced with immediate loss of their
apartments.	CIRC
The authority will never, and should never, waste its time and
resources trying to weed out all the innocuous and beloved family
dogs. But the ban provides useful leverage against people who will
not easily agree to get rid of a pet, no matter how miserable it
makes life for the neighbors. Empowering dog-owning families with a
federal right will make it far more difficult for the authority to
win a case.	CIRC
This is an issue that is simple to rectify. The legislators who
created this mess, particularly Rep. Carolyn Maloney of New York,
must encourage the conferees to kill the provision and refrain from
bringing the idea up again.	EXPE
Fighting the pet lobby will not win them any votes. But it is
the responsible thing to do _ the kind of small decision that shows
the difference between a pandering politician and a serious
legislator.	EXPE

YAMANOUCHI, Japan _ ``ROSS IS THE CHAMPION. GIVE THE GOLD
BACK!''	VERB
The words were written in black marker on a linen hotel napkin,
and the young man holding that napkin up i the drizzle at the
bottom of the snowboarding halfpipe run this morning was the
Canadian rider Michael Michalchuck.	MAIN
``I made it last night because I believe in Ross,'' said
Michalchuck, 20, from Calgary.	VERB
Ross Rebagliati, the Canadian snowboarder who has been stripped
of his gold medal in the giant slalom by the International Olympic
Committee after testing positive for marijuana, was not one of the
spectators Thursday at the Kanbayashi Snowboard Park. But he was
unquestionably the central figure as the men's and women's halfpipe
riders made their Olympic debuts.	CIRC
``Ross won fair and square; he is the gold medalist, and no one
can deny him that,'' Michalchuck said. ``I don't understand why
this is happening. He is a friend of mine, and he should be given
the gold back. I saw him before this, and he was on top of the
world. This should never have happened to him.''	VERB
Michalchuck decided to make his very public appeal on Wednesday
night, and when he finished his opening run, he unstrapped his
board, took the napkin from his girlfriend and calmly held it up to
the photographers and television camera operators waiting in the
finish area.	MAIN
``I think the Olympics are good for snowboarding, but I don't
think this whole deal is,'' he said.	VERB
``Marijuana is not a performance-enhancing drug, and Ross did
not smoke it; he was just subjected to it,'' he added. ``Marijuana
is present in every sport. If it happens to be more present in
snowboarding, it may be just because it's a younger generation. A
lot of us do not smoke it, but I'm not denying that a lot of my
friends do. You're not going to change a friend because they do.''
Michalchuck was not the only Canadian to take an activist
stance.	VERB
``In the spirit of snowboarders, we're not going to sit down on
this,'' said Mark Fawcett, one of Rebagliati's fellow giant- slalom
riders. ``We're going to try to take the scar and put it back on
the IOC. To come right back at them.''	VERB
Cara-Beth Burnside of the United States said: ``Everyone was
furious. Everyone was, like, Ross won the gold, no matter what. It
wasn't anything that was affecting his performance. I mean, come
on, they're kicking people out for cough medicine.''	VERB
Others were more circumspect. ``Well, marijuana is on the
list,'' said Norwegian Anne Molin Kongsgaard, who added that the
disqualification was ``very sad.''	VERB
Some riders also expressed dismay that after waiting for years
to show their moves in the Olympics, this issue was now much more
interesting to the world than whether they had just performed a
McTwist.	VERB
``It's a weird day,'' said the Canadian team spokesman, Paul
Rivard. ``Because the riders know everybody wants to talk about
something other than their run, and they want to stay focused.''	VERB

YAMANOUCHI, Japan _ By the time it ended, it should have been
called slushboard, not snowboard.	EVAL
There was driving rain and lightning, and an official decision
to close off half the spectators' area because the ground had
become too slippery. But unlike those much more recognizable
Olympic veterans, the downhillers, the halfpipe riders spun,
flipped and soldiered on.	CIRC
The first gold medal in the discipline's history went to
20-year-old Nicola Thost of Germany, who has a gift for
``amplitude.'' The first silver went to Norway's Stine Brun
Kjeldaas, and the first bronze to Shannon Dunn of Steamboat
Springs, Colo.	MAIN
Dunn was on her way to a gold medal when she lost her balance as
she went into her fifth aerial maneuver and found herself staring
up the edge instead of rising high in the air. Her gaffe did not
spoil her Olympic moment. ``That was so fun,'' she said as she
waited for her scores.	MAIN
In the men's halfpipe, Gian Simmen of Switzerland won the gold
medal, while Daniel Franck of Norway captured the silver. Ross
Powers of South Loudenderry, Vt., took the bronze.	MAIN

STANFORD, Calif. _ It was fun while it lasted for the Harvard
women's basketball team.	EVAL
The Crimson's run in the NCAA tournament ended on Monday night
with an 82-64 loss to Arkansas (20-10) in a second-round matchup at
Maples Pavilion at Stanford University.	MAIN
Wendy Willits, Arkansas' freshman guard, nailed six 3-pointers
(including five in the first nine minutes of the game), one short
of the NCAA tournament record. Meanwhile, the senior point guard
Christy Smith led Arkansas with 19 points while also recording 11
assists.	MAIN
So Harvard (23-5) is left to ponder the significance of its run
and the possible long-term impact on both the Crimson and the Ivy
League.	CONS
Defeating top-seeded Stanford in the first round was a truly
remarkable feat by Harvard. Not only had no 16th-seeded team ever
defeated a No. 1-seeded team, but none had come closer than 32
points.	EVAL
Maybe it was only a matter of time before an Ivy League team
broke through. After all, Dartmouth lost by only three points to
Virginia in 1995, when the Cavaliers were seeded third in the East
Regional. A year later, Harvard was within five points late in the
second half against Vanderbilt, also seeded third and playing at
home.	HIST
Arkansas coach Gary Blair, who was not short on hyperbole during
the postgame news conference, was clearly impressed by Harvard.
``Harvard is the American dream,'' he said. ``It's an indication
to the rest of America to realize, 'We can.' I'm just as excited
for Harvard as I was for my basketball team.''	VERB
But Harvard coach Kathy Delaney-Smith was a bit more restrained
in her assessment.	EVAL
``Yes, it will certainly have an impact,'' Delaney-Smith said.
`It will impact in that Allison Feaster and her senior classmates
have left a legacy for the younger players to believe that anything
can happen.	VERB
``In the sense of changing the program _ attracting a higher
level of players _ I doubt that because we are already competing
with some of the top 10 programs for players. Admissions is
entirely out of my hands. If I were to list some of the phenomenal
players that we're very interested in, one of two things happened:
Their financial aid package didn't work for their family, or they
were not admitted to Harvard.''	VERB
But for Feaster, who lived up to her billing on a national
stage, the tournament performance means a career in one of the two
professional women's leagues. The senior forward, who finished with
2,312 career points, said she will pursue professional
opportunities.	VERB
Feaster ``reminds me of a smaller version of Natalie Williams,
who's the best player in the ABL,'' Blair said. ``She could be for
women's Ivy League basketball what Bill Bradley was for the men
years ago. Before she hits Wall Street, I hope she hits the pro
leagues for a few years.''	VERB

NEWARK, N.J. _ A new Essex County task force began delving
Thursday into the slayings of 14 black women over the last five
years in the Newark area, as law-enforcement officials acknowledged
that they needed to work harder to solve the cases of murdered
women.	LEAD
The police and prosecutors said they had identified different
suspects in six of the cases and had yet to find any pattern
linking the killings or the victims, several of whom were believed
to be prostitutes.	CONS
State, county and local law-enforcement officials have expressed
concerns in recent months about a possible pattern of murdered
women and a disproportionate number of unsolved cases.	CIRC
Citing an example, Sgt. Derek Glenn, a spokesman for the Newark
Police Department, said that of nine women who had been killed last
year, suspects had been arrested in only four cases. But over all,
arrests were made in more than 60 percent of murder cases, he said.	VERB
Eight of the 14 killings since 1993 were already under
investigation by the Newark Police Department, Glenn said. Of the
eight victims, three were stabbed, two were strangled, two were
beaten to death and one was asphyxiated, he said, and these
different methods of killing and other evidence seem to indicate
that the eight cases are not related.	VERB
But with the task-force investigation just getting under way,
officials have been careful not to draw any firm conclusions,
leaving open the possibility of a serial killer in some of the
cases. There have been no arrests in any of the slayings.	CIRC
``I haven't seen a pattern yet,'' said Patricia Hurt, the Essex
County prosecutor, who created the task force on Tuesday. ``The
type of lifestyle these women have is extremely dangerous,'' she
said.	VERB

NEW YORK _ The pink Cristal Champagne was flown in from France,
and the rack of lamb was made to order by the chefs at Mortimer's.
All so Ilyse Wilpon, whose family is an owner of the Mets, could
entertain 113 friends at a private dinner recently.	CIRC
Inside the Upper East Side restaurant, which on this evening was
closed to the public, men in Turnbull &AMP; Asser shirts and the latest
Hermes ties sat alternately around 12 tables with women with
blown-out bobs and Chanel suits.	PREV
The sexes were evenly balanced _ man, woman, man, woman _ except
for a 13th table, at which seven women sat together with a single
man (who seemed to disappear after he ate the lamb).	MAIN
Ms. Wilpon, 35, who co-owns and manages Tati North America, a
French bridal store on Fifth Avenue, was concerned about the
table's imbalance. ``Seating can get so complicated,'' she sighed,
standing by the bar, wearing black and white pearls and a strapless
Givenchy dress. At the last minute, seven of her guests had
canceled, all of them men. They blamed late planes and sudden
business meetings (sure, sure). Ms. Wilpon seated the extra women
with her 92-year-old grandmother. But no one seemed overjoyed about
the arrangement.	PREV
From Park Avenue to Park Slope, an age-old imbalance confronts
the givers of dinner parties: men seem so much more reluctant than
women to dress nicely and converse politely around a table. All
over town, men and women who attend dinner parties _ whether
intimate ones in private homes, black-tie charity affairs in hotel
ballrooms or, the latest trend, parties in hot restaurants _ agree
that the male of the species is difficult to lure out of his lair
for an evening.	LEAD
Lauran Walk, 27, a production coordinator for Sony studios, said
it was nearly impossible to get her husband, Charlie Walk, a music
promotion executive, to accompany her to dinner parties given by
her friends. ``He always gives me a hard time,'' Ms. Walk said.
``He says he's really tired or he wants a quiet night.''	VERB
Scott Jones, 30, a tax manager who lives in the East 20s, says
he zones out at dinner parties. When his girlfriend, Sherri Weiss,
asks him to go with her, he says, ``I suddenly remember a buddy who
is in some serious need of guidance.''	VERB
The reluctance challenges dinner-party hosts, who almost
invariably say that whether their guests are married or single, gay
or straight, dinner parties ought to have equal representation by
the sexes. ``My friends and I say you should go downstairs, dress
up the doorman and bring him up to the table rather than be short a
man,'' said Jackie Weld, a writer living on the Upper East Side,
who gives dinner parties twice a month.	VERB
Polly Onet, a professional party planner who has organized
events from small birthday parties to the society wedding of David
and Julia Koch, said: ``Women don't want to get all dressed up and
sit next to other women. And women love to go out more than men.''	VERB
Why, oh why is this the case in the capital of the universe in
1998, when such differences between the sexes might seem to have
gone the way of formal dance cards and white tie and cutaways?	EVAL
Men and women who are experienced both as reluctant guests and
imploring hosts offer a variety of reasons. ``Women are more
adventurous than men,'' admitted Soli Mehta, 36, an investment
banker, adding that he'd rather go to the same familiar restaurants
in jeans than dress up and sit next to someone he doesn't know at a
dinner party. ``It's about being comfortable after work,'' he said.
Women, in his experience, ``like to try new things, dress up, go to
new places.''	VERB
Letitia Baldrige, the etiquette maven, said the difference
traces to the time when women were denied access to the working
world, with its opportunity for social and intellectual
stimulation. ``Women have fought for years to be part of important
dinner conversation,'' she said. ``It's their only time for social
intercourse with the opposite sex. Lunch is for ladies. Dinner is
for both. Women, many times, have been with the children all day,
or even if they haven't, they may be bored with their own husbands
and want another husband to talk to. Who knows, they may even end
up marrying the other one.''	VERB
Today, of course, most women work, and many have opportunities
for social interaction during the day. But even professional women
seem to enjoy the dinner-party ritual more than their male
counterparts.	EVAL
``I like getting dressed up,'' said Ellen V. Futter, the
president of the American Museum of Natural History, who said it
doesn't matter whether the event is an extension of work or her
social life. Her husband, she said, is much harder to coax out of
the house.	VERB

