U.S. troops today acted for the first time to capture an alleged Bosnian war criminal, rushing from unmarked vans parked in the northern Serb-dominated city of Bijeljina to seize a former concentration camp commander accused of killing at least 16 Muslims and abusing or terrorizing scores of others.	LEAD
Goran Jelisic, a 29-year-old who described himself a "Serb Adolf" and had made little attempt to hide his presence in the city, was surrounded without incident as he left his apartment at roughly 8 a.m.	MAIN
He then was transferred to Tuzla, site of the main U.S. military base in Bosnia, and immediately flown to The Hague, where he was placed in the custody of officials from the International War Crimes Tribunal there.	MAIN
The U.S. military action was planned in advance, according to officials here.	CIRC
But it was carried out during a week in which human rights groups have sharply criticized the Clinton administration for refusing to let U.S. troops seize any of the dozens of the indicted war crimes suspects still at large in this country.	CIRC
U.S. forces provided backup support to British troops that fatally shot one Serb and captured another last July and to Dutch troops that seized two Croats in December.	CIRC
The U.S. Embassy here issued a general warning to Americans that they could be at risk for reprisals.	CONS
But Jelisic was probably one of the least provocative targets Washington could pick.	CONS
He is not considered close to the hard-line Serb leadership and, according to one well-informed diplomat here, "was not popular" among fellow Serbs in Bijeljina.	CONS
A U.S. military officer said he was "a thug" without political standing.	CONS
Graham Blewitt, deputy prosecutor of the war crimes tribunal, nonetheless hailed Jelisic's arrest and said the allegations against him "are very serious.	VERB
The offenses committed were horrific, and the accused was personally involved in a lot of them.	VERB
We regard him as a significant arrest.	VERB
Blewitt added that "we hope this is not the end of it," alluding to the approximately 50 additional publicly indicted war crimes suspects who have not been turned over to the tribunal.	VERB
An unknown number of combatants have been indicted secretly by the tribunal, which the United Nations established in 1993 to seek justice for the horrendous human rights abuses that occurred during the 1992-1995 ethnic war.	VERB
The two Bosnian entities -- the Serb Republic and Croat-Muslim federation -- are required under the 1995 Dayton peace accord that imposed a cease-fire here to surrender all accused war criminals within their jurisdictions.	HIST
But the top two targets, hard-line Serb leader Radovan Karadzic and former Serb military chief Ratko Mladic, are well-protected by armed guards.	HIST
The West's strategy has been to try to undermine their power.	HIST
The U.S. military maintains an estimated 8,000 troops in the northeast "corridor" of Bosnia that includes Bijeljina, a city of fewer than 100,000 people that remains home to many hard-line Serbs.	CIRC
But the city itself is not patrolled routinely by Americans and instead falls under the responsibility of Russian peacekeeping forces operating under NATO command.	CIRC
Officials here say that Moscow's policy bars any involvement by its soldiers in capturing war criminals, however, and the Russians were not informed in advance of the American operation.	CIRC
In a June 1995 indictment by the tribunal, Jelisic was charged with genocide, crimes against humanity, violations of the laws or customs of war, and grave breaches of the Geneva Conventions governing the treatment of prisoners of war.	HIST
The allegations grew out of reports that he systematically killed Muslims who had been detained at a bus company, a police headquarters in the city of Brcko, and the Luka concentration camp.	HIST
In addition, according to a U.N. spokesman here, Jelisic "created an atmosphere of terror [at the camp] by killing, abusing and threatening the detainees, thereby subjecting them to extreme psychological trauma, degradation and fear.	VERB
Some of the evidence to be presented by the tribunal is based on exhumations conducted near Brcko last year.	VERB
Dutch National Radio reported in December that Jelisic told an interviewer he had no regrets for his actions in Brcko, saying he slept well because "I never used knives to kill people. . . .	CIRC
That's why God invented the pistol.	CIRC
When he was captured today, Jelisic was carrying a pistol, according to U.S. officials in Washington.	MAIN
The tribunal's chief prosecutor, Louise Arbour, has promised speedy trials for all those detained.	VERB
But the tribunal has four trials underway and five more awaiting a courtroom, making it unlikely that Jelisic will be tried for another year, officials said.	VERB
Arbour's predecessor, Richard Goldstone and a group of former U.S. and allied officials and jurists have criticized the Clinton administration for not ordering U.S. troops to seize alleged war criminals.	VERB
Goldstone said the U.S. failure to act had provoked contempt for the Dayton accord and impeded the creation of a new Bosnian nation.	VERB
But today, an organizer of the group, Nina Bang-Jensen of the Coalition for International Justice in Washington, praised the administration for orchestrating an "important arrest.	VERB

One of the richest men in South Korea, the chairman of Samsung Co., said today he would sell $ 75 million worth of landholdings -- keeping only his and his mother's homes -- to invest in his ailing company and "share the pain of the nation.	LEAD
Samsung Chairman Lee Kun Hee, a man considered almost royalty here, also pledged to donate 90 percent of his annual income, or about $ 6 million, to a welfare fund for workers as long as the country remains crippled by financial crisis.	MAIN
This dramatic and symbolic announcement came as the president-elect, Kim Dae Jung, vowed to cut his own modest salary by 30 percent.	MAIN
(At the current exchange rate, his presidential salary would amount to less than $ 60,000.)	MAIN
Samsung also announced today that the company is scaling back, shelving plans to build a showcase 102-story Seoul office building and cutting ties with a prized asset, the influential daily newspaper Joong Ang Ilbo.	MAIN
Samsung also plans to sell $ 300 million worth of buildings in London, Singapore and the New York area.	MAIN
But, in a sign of the growing suffering of ordinary workers, chairman Lee's plan to donate personal assets to help with the problems was quickly dismissed by angry working people and by political analysts as a pittance.	VERB
These company heads exploited their workers and got rich off the little people," said Lee Hi Ho, a businessman hit by the crisis.	VERB
It's their duty to give back some of the money.	VERB
I am really not impressed.	VERB
The money didn't belong to him in the first place," said an even angrier Han Jae Jyuk, 32, a worker in Seoul.	VERB
But despite criticisms that the corporate elite must do more, Lee's offering adds to the growing pressure on the men who run South Korea's biggest companies to forfeit some of their enormous wealth.	EXPE
For some of the corporate kings, personal helicopters and antique cars are as common as toys.	EXPE
There is strong and growing resentment toward the chaebol heads," said Lee Jung Hoon, a political science professor at Yonsei University, referring to the leaders of the country's business conglomerates.	VERB
People want the industrial heads to demonstrate their share of the suffering.	VERB
Lee said some of these titans have amassed so much money that many feel that these family-run companies, along with the government, orchestrated "institutionalized theft of taxpayers.	VERB
He said he doubted today's announcements would satisfy people who have been hit hard by shrinking income and rising prices.	VERB
So he gives up 90 percent of his salary.	VERB
These guys don't need a salary," Professor Lee said.	VERB
A growing number of ordinary people, faced with unpaid bills or their small businesses going bust, are trying to sell their homes to raise cash.	CIRC
Some, at least, were glad the chairman of Samsung was putting up some of his property, too.	CIRC
I know it is only a symbolic gesture, but it means a lot," said housewife Kim Sun Yong.	VERB
Chairman Lee apparently could recoup the money he invested in Samsung from the sale of his real estate, but the details of his pledge were not clear tonight.	CONS
A spokesman for the company, Je Seung Lim, said the chairman also would withdraw cash from his bank account and sell stock for a new fund for workers hurt by the restructuring efforts.	CONS
He said the chairman was trying to help the nation "pull through the current economic hardship.	CONS
Mass layoffs are expected throughout South Korea in coming months, and millions of workers have been notified in recent weeks about sharp pay cuts.	CONS
The most militant unions are asking that the heads of the conglomerates be removed from their businesses and replaced by professional managers, because millions of livelihoods are at stake.	CONS
The chairman of the Lotte Group, Shin Kyuk Ho, said last week that he would invest $ 10 million of his own money to bolster his company, and announcements from other chairmen are now expected.	CIRC
President-elect Kim made it clear Tuesday that he was not pleased with the restructuring plans announced by two other conglomerates, Hyundai Corp. and LG Group; the wealthy heads of these conglomerates did not offer to use their personal assets in the recovery plan.	VERB
The president-elect was quoted by aides as calling their plans "hollow" and "cosmetic.	VERB

President Clinton had planned weeks ago to devote yesterday to building up public interest in next week's State of the Union address.	LEAD
Instead, he spent his afternoon with a revolving door of reporters, in a campaign to keep his presidency from buckling under the force of allegations about his relationship with a former White House intern.	LEAD
In a remarkable series of three interviews in which the president was questioned bluntly and without apology about adultery and obstruction of justice alike, Clinton denied having had a sexual relationship with a then-White House aide, 24-year-old Monica Lewinsky.	MAIN
But he also repeatedly refused to say whether he ever discussed with Lewinsky how she should answer questions about their relationship.	MAIN
Appearing on PBS's "NewsHour With Jim Lehrer," Clinton emphatically denied that he had encouraged Lewinsky to lie to attorneys seeking a statement from her in the Paula Jones sexual harassment case.	MAIN
At the same time, he brushed aside requests to explain his relationship or conversations with her.	MAIN
I did not urge anyone to say anything that was untrue," Clinton told Lehrer.	MAIN
That's my statement to you.	MAIN
It was precisely this suspicion that had engulfed the White House yesterday in a furor that aides acknowledged threatens to be the gravest legal and political challenge Clinton has faced in five years as president.	MAIN
An allegation that Clinton and Washington lawyer Vernon E. Jordan Jr., one of the president's closest advisers, coached Lewinsky to commit perjury in the Jones case prompted Whitewater independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr on Friday to secretly seek and gain authority from a three-judge panel to expand his investigation.	CIRC
Only late Tuesday evening did Clinton and his lawyers learn of Starr's new avenue and of the potentially damaging evidence -- including taped conversations between Lewinsky and a former co-worker -- he has already assembled.	CIRC
Within hours of the news of the allegations breaking at midnight Tuesday, the White House was in the midst of a full-blown media frenzy, with senior aides and lawyers meeting and talking by phone through the night about how to respond.	CIRC
The most important element of the response came from Clinton himself -- in three previously scheduled interviews he gave carefully worded statements that denied some of the most unseemly allegations but left other pressing questions unanswered.	CIRC
The relationship was not sexual," Clinton told Roll Call, a Capitol Hill newspaper.	CIRC
And I know what you mean, and the answer is no.	CIRC
Clinton told National Public Radio that his answers to questions about Lewinsky were constrained by Starr's investigation.	CIRC
NPR reporter Mara Liasson asked Clinton "whether you had any conversations with her about her testimony, had any conversations at all.	CIRC
The president responded: "I think given the state of this investigation, it would be inappropriate for me to say more.	CONS
I've said everything, I think, that I need to say now.	CONS
Clinton advisers inside and outside the White House acknowledged how unlikely these clipped answers are to satisfy the public's demand for reassurance that Clinton and Jordan did nothing improper.	VERB
And, uncharacteristically, they made scarcely any effort to play down the severity of their situation.	VERB
Even in a White House that long ago learned to prosper amid political and legal controversies, the latest allegations exploded like a bomb on a quiet street.	CONS
Administration officials who had believed they had withstood the worst of the Whitewater and Democratic fund-raising investigations recited a long list of new problems:	CONS
The allegations, unless effectively and swiftly rebutted, threaten to swamp Clinton in a perilous new criminal investigation, aides said; they promise to overwhelm public attention that would ordinarily be devoted to the policies and rhetoric Clinton will present in Tuesday's prime-time State of the Union speech, and already they have badly undermined morale at the Clinton White House.	VERB
Many present and former officials in the middle and lower ranks acknowledged privately that they did not see Clinton's careful statements yesterday as anything like the full-throated denial they were hoping for.	VERB
And many of these people -- who regularly denounced the Whitewater and fund-raising probes as partisan vendettas -- said they could scarcely defend their boss if the new charges turn out to be substantially true.	VERB
I hope he didn't do these things, but if he did he should resign, he shouldn't be president," said one administration official who started with Clinton in the 1992 campaign.	VERB
Instead of dismissing the allegations as patently absurd, several people placed their hope on more narrow grounds: Would it really be logistically possible for the president to carry out the two-year sexual relationship that sources said Lewinsky has claimed in the taped conversations with the former co-worker?	VERB
Could it be that Lewinsky had fabricated a tale?	VERB
For senior White House officials, the day began with an injunction not to concern themselves with such questions.	CIRC
Chief of Staff Erskine B. Bowles, at the 7:45 a.m. senior staff meeting, made what aides described as a short, grim speech in which he noted the morning's headlines but reminded his team that Clinton had faced similar crises and distractions in the past.	CIRC
He told everyone to concentrate on their work and turned the floor over to national economic adviser Gene Sperling for a discussion of tax policy.	CIRC
But few people around the White House were interested in tax policy.	CONS
There's an air of unreality here," said one White House official.	CONS
Many staff members talking with reporters grilled them on the latest of what they had heard.	CONS
Many said they spent the day glued to the television.	CONS
Portions of Clinton's interview with NPR and PBS were carried live on major broadcast networks.	CONS
CNN went live with White House press secretary Michael McCurry's daily briefing, which was uncommonly jammed with reporters and was dominated by extended but unilluminating exchanges over what precisely Clinton was denying and what, if anything, he was admitting.	VERB
Repeatedly, McCurry was asked what constituted an "improper relationship," each time falling back on a similar response: "I'm not going to parse the statement.	VERB
You've got the statement I made earlier and it speaks for itself.	VERB
Likewise, first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, on a day trip to Baltimore to speak at a college, found herself pressed for a response on the uproar.	CONS
Can you say that you flatly believe these latest accusations are false?	VERB
a reporter asked.	VERB
Certainly I believe they're false," she replied.	VERB
"Absolutely.	VERB
Asked if the publicity was difficult for her to endure, the first lady acknowledged it was.	VERB
You know, I wouldn't say that it is not hard.	VERB
It is difficult and painful any time someone you care about, you love, you admire is attacked and subjected to such relentless accusations as my husband has been," she said.	VERB
But I also have now lived with this for more than six years.	VERB
And I have seen how these charges evaporate and disappear as they're given the light of day.	VERB
Last night, the president donned a black tie and the first lady a formal evergreen suit to preside at a White House dinner to celebrate the completion of a $ 25 million fund for White House restoration.	CONS
As if White House staff members needed to be told of the severity of the charges, some of the key political advisers of the first term were there to remind them.	VERB
Former White House senior adviser George Stephanopoulos, now an analyst for ABC News, offered a pungent assessment on "Good Morning, America."	VERB
These are probably the most serious allegations yet leveled against the president," he said.	VERB
There's no question that . . .	VERB
if they're true, they're not only politically damaging, but it could lead to impeachment proceedings.	VERB
But they are just questions right now, and that's why I think we do all have to take a deep breath before we go too far here, without underestimating their seriousness," Stephanopoulos added.	VERB
Political consultant James Carville, who remains an informal adviser to the Clinton White House and is often the Clinton team's designated point man for attacking Starr, said it is imperative for Clinton's future that the charges be dispensed with quickly.	VERB
The president said they're not true; I believe it," Carville said in an interview, acknowledging that many in the public will want more proof.	VERB
We've got to get to the bottom of it and fast. . . .	VERB
This could be the most-talked-about [controversy] in modern political history.	VERB

Susan Valentine, a 38-year-old mother of five from Annandale, doesn't care whether 20,000 or 100,000 antiabortion demonstrators turn out for today's "March for Life," the protest held each year in Washington since the U.S. Supreme Court legalized abortion 25 years ago.	LEAD
What matters, said Valentine, who has been active in the antiabortion movement since she was 13, is that a quarter of a century after the court's Roe v. Wade decision, "we are still going strong, still drawing thousands of people to marches, still making this an issue for candidates.	VERB
After all this time, it shows the strength of people's convictions.	VERB
Organizers of the protest, which will begin with a noon rally at the Ellipse, followed by a march up Constitution Avenue to the Supreme Court building, declined yesterday to predict how many supporters will attend.	CIRC
But they said the 25th anniversary will draw a larger turnout than the 50,000 to 75,000 who have participated in recent years.	CIRC
Many older antiabortion activists from the Washington area have attended nearly every annual rally, and some said this year's gathering is especially important, given the current heated debate over "partial birth" abortions.	CIRC
I remember one year there was a blizzard.	VERB
Our church bus never came, so I waited for a Metro bus, and that never came.	VERB
Of course I'll be there tomorrow," said Robert Follett, 62, a longtime official with the Virginia Society for Human Life.	VERB
I will always feel that it is anathema to kill a child, whether it is an hour, a day, a week or months before the birth.	VERB
Thousands of parochial school and college students are joining this year's demonstration, including 1,500 high school students from across the country who spent last night at Catholic University.	MAIN
Some have described themselves as part of the "Roe v. Wade generation" -- lucky to be alive and eager to carry on the antiabortion crusade.	MAIN
This generation has the plague of death hanging over it," said Christine O'Donnell, 28, who heads a Christian youth group in Woodbridge that will hold a "torch-passing" ceremony after the rally.	VERB
We see teens killing each other over jackets, teens dumping babies in dumpsters.	VERB
Instead, we need to raise up a generation of young people who will carry the pro-life battle into the millennium.	VERB
Organizations that support abortion rights are commemorating the Roe anniversary in a more low-key fashion.	CONS
Their only public event was a gathering Tuesday outside the Supreme Court, where women who have had abortions talked about their experiences.	CONS
Today, Vice President Gore will be the main speaker at a hotel luncheon given by the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League.	CONS
Also, Resist and Refuse, a lesser-known abortion rights group, plans to hold a counter-demonstration to the antiabortion rally near the Ellipse today.	CONS
We have had lots of huge marches in our history," said Kate Michelman, NARAL president.	VERB
We use the anniversary of Roe to reflect on women's lives and on the profound impact this decision has had on women from every walk of life.	VERB
In addition to today's march, Roman Catholic churches and antiabortion groups scheduled a series of activities in the area this week.	PREV
Last night, Cardinal Bernard Law led a special Mass at the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, and youth groups held a "Kids for Life" music concert there.	PREV

Conservatives including Sen. John D. Ashcroft (R-Mo.) yesterday launched a drive to block Senate confirmation of David Satcher as surgeon general, setting the stage for a potentially rancorous fight over his nomination after Congress reconvenes next Tuesday.	LEAD
At a news conference sponsored by the conservative journal Human Events, Ashcroft and representatives of the Christian Coalition and the Family Research Council objected in particular to Satcher's support for President Clinton's stand opposing passage of legislation to ban what critics describe as "partial-birth" abortions.	MAIN
The nation's chief medical officer should be above reproach," Ashcroft said.	VERB
Unfortunately, this is not the case with this nominee.	VERB
Dr. Satcher joins with the president in support of 'partial birth' abortion, a position that places him squarely at odds with the professional and ethical judgment of the American Medical Association.	VERB
But in separate statements yesterday, the AMA and American Academy of Family Physicians reaffirmed their support for Satcher and called for his prompt confirmation.	PREV
The American Medical Association continues to enthusiastically support Dr. David Satcher. . . .	VERB
He will bring a wealth of experience from both the private and public sectors to the office," said AMA President-elect Nancy W. Dickey.	VERB
The surgeon general's office "has been vacant far too long," and "the American public needs a credible voice they can turn to in times of a public health crisis," she added.	VERB
Satcher, a former president of Meharry Medical College who has served as director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention since 1993, was nominated last year by Clinton.	PREV
His nomination was approved by the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee and he appeared to have broad support in the Senate.	PREV
But final Senate action was held up, largely because of conservatives' abortion-related objections.	PREV
While Ashcroft indicated he will keep trying to hold up action on the nomination, the timing is up to Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.), who said in a CNN interview Sunday that he intends to seek a vote "in the first couple of weeks" after Congress reconvenes.	VERB
He would have to consider any "new information available from Sen. Ashcroft or others," Lott said.	VERB
But I think at some point the responsible thing to do is to call it on up.	VERB
Let's have a debate on his qualifications and his positions and have a vote," Lott added.	VERB
Lott appeared to be a major focus of the conservatives' effort to derail Satcher's nomination.	VERB
Randy Tate, executive director of the Christian Coalition, noted that Lott said Congress is the proper arena for action on abortion in a letter to the Republican National Committee before it voted last weekend against penalizing GOP candidates who oppose the ban.	VERB
So Lott should "exercise leadership in the U.S. Senate and defend these innocent children by defeating this nomination," Tate said.	VERB
Meanwhile, on another contentious nomination, the Justice Department disagreed with two influential senators who contend that Bill Lann Lee, whose nomination as assistant attorney general for civil rights was stalled in the Senate last year, cannot serve in an acting capacity in the job beyond 120 days.	CIRC
In letters to Senate Judiciary Committee Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.), Assistant Attorney General Andrew Fois said it has "long been the position" of the Justice Department that it does not fall under the 120-day limitation prescribed by the Vacancies Act.	VERB
In any case, the limitation would no longer apply when Clinton renominates Lee, as he has said he will do, Fois said.	VERB
There was no immediate response from Hatch or Byrd.	CIRC

Conservatives including Sen. John D. Ashcroft (R-Mo.) yesterday launched a drive to block Senate confirmation of David Satcher as surgeon general, setting the stage for a potentially rancorous fight over his nomination after Congress reconvenes next Tuesday.	LEAD
At a news conference sponsored by the conservative journal Human Events, Ashcroft and representatives of the Christian Coalition and the Family Research Council objected in particular to Satcher's support for President Clinton's stand opposing passage of legislation to ban what critics describe as "partial-birth" abortions.	MAIN
The nation's chief medical officer should be above reproach," Ashcroft said.	VERB
Unfortunately, this is not the case with this nominee.	VERB
Dr. Satcher joins with the president in support of 'partial birth' abortion, a position that places him squarely at odds with the professional and ethical judgment of the American Medical Association.	VERB
But in separate statements yesterday, the AMA and American Academy of Family Physicians reaffirmed their support for Satcher and called for his prompt confirmation.	VERB
The American Medical Association continues to enthusiastically support Dr. David Satcher. . . .	VERB
He will bring a wealth of experience from both the private and public sectors to the office," said AMA President-elect Nancy W. Dickey.	VERB
The surgeon general's office "has been vacant far too long," and "the American public needs a credible voice they can turn to in times of a public health crisis," she added.	VERB
Satcher, a former president of Meharry Medical College who has served as director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention since 1993, was nominated last year by Clinton.	PREV
His nomination was approved by the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee and he appeared to have broad support in the Senate.	PREV
But final Senate action was held up, largely because of conservatives' abortion-related objections.	PREV
While Ashcroft indicated he will keep trying to hold up action on the nomination, the timing is up to Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.), who said in a CNN interview Sunday that he intends to seek a vote "in the first couple of weeks" after Congress reconvenes.	VERB
He would have to consider any "new information available from Sen. Ashcroft or others," Lott said.	VERB
But I think at some point the responsible thing to do is to call it on up.	VERB
Let's have a debate on his qualifications and his positions and have a vote," Lott added.	VERB
Lott appeared to be a major focus of the conservatives' effort to derail Satcher's nomination.	EVAL
Randy Tate, executive director of the Christian Coalition, noted that Lott said Congress is the proper arena for action on abortion in a letter to the Republican National Committee before it voted last weekend against penalizing GOP candidates who oppose the ban.	VERB
So Lott should "exercise leadership in the U.S. Senate and defend these innocent children by defeating this nomination," Tate said.	VERB
Meanwhile, on another contentious nomination, the Justice Department disagreed with two influential senators who contend that Bill Lann Lee, whose nomination as assistant attorney general for civil rights was stalled in the Senate last year, cannot serve in an acting capacity in the job beyond 120 days.	CIRC
In letters to Senate Judiciary Committee Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) and Sen. Robert C. Byrd (D-W.Va.), Assistant Attorney General Andrew Fois said it has "long been the position" of the Justice Department that it does not fall under the 120-day limitation prescribed by the Vacancies Act.	VERB
In any case, the limitation would no longer apply when Clinton renominates Lee, as he has said he will do, Fois said.	VERB
There was no immediate response from Hatch or Byrd.	CONS

Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen said today that he is satisfied Beijing will not continue sales of anti-ship missiles to Iran as he wrapped up a four-day visit here that underscored improving Sino-American military ties.	LEAD
At a news conference before departing for Tokyo, Cohen described his meetings with Chinese officials as "warm and productive.	MAIN
Most notably, U.S. officials said, the Chinese military granted Cohen an unprecedented peek at a heretofore secret air defense command center and concluded its first formal agreement with the Pentagon -- a protocol designed to avert clashes or accidents at sea.	MAIN
Cohen declined, however, to say explicitly whether Chinese Defense Minister Chi Haotian had agreed to cancel any existing missile deals with Iran.	MAIN
China reportedly has sold C-801 and C-802 anti-ship cruise missiles to Iran in defiance of U.S. concerns that they could threaten Persian Gulf shipping, and it remains unclear if China has contracted to sell Iran any additional missiles.	MAIN
Since then, U.S. and Chinese officials have labored to improve ties despite domestic opposition, lingering mistrust and strong disagreement over Taiwan -- an island state of 21 million people that China considers a rogue province and the United States is legally bound to support.	PREV
Cohen's visit here -- the fifth leg of a seven-nation tour of East Asia -- has built on a groundswell of good feelings engendered by the October meeting in Washington between President Clinton and Chinese President Jiang Zemin.	PREV
At his news conference, Cohen held out the prospect that the U.S. embargo on military sales to China might someday be lifted -- an embargo imposed in 1989, following China's bloody crackdown on student-led democracy demonstrations in Beijing.	MAIN
He said the Chinese had asked to buy spare parts for unarmed U.S.-built Blackhawk helicopters purchased in the mid-1980s.	MAIN
On Monday, Cohen tried to calm Chinese concerns that strengthened U.S. defense ties with Japan, Australia and, recently, the Philippines and Singapore may be designed to contain China.	CIRC
Today, China is an Asian power and rightfully so," he told an audience at the Academy of Military Science.	CIRC
The United States does not fear this, nor do we view China as an adversary.	CIRC
Defense Minister Chi responded that the United States also should not fear China's push to become a regional power.	VERB
It is groundless to describe the modernization drive of China's army, which is for the sake of the country's economic construction and of a defensive nature, as an unstable factor in the region," he said.	VERB
U.S. officials noted also that China has begun sharing some information on events in North Korea, where a food shortage and an unpredictable Communist regime have combined to raise fears for the stability of the Korean peninsula.	CIRC
Military contacts between the two nations, nearly nonexistent in 1996, have ballooned to almost weekly visits by Chinese officers to the United States and vice versa, U.S. officials said.	CIRC
On Monday, Chinese army chief of staff	CIRC
Fu Quanyou invited Gen. Henry Shelton, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, to China later this year.	CIRC
Cohen's visit to Beijing's Air Defense Command Center Monday was the highlight of his trip.	CIRC
Arranged just days before he arrived, the visit gave him and U.S. military experts a glance into the heart of China's defense structure.	CIRC
Cohen was accompanied by 14 other U.S. officials, including Adam.	CIRC
Joseph W. Prueher, commander of U.S. Pacific forces.	CIRC
The eight-story building, fashioned Soviet-style from concrete, is situated in southeastern Beijing behind a lightly guarded gate, according to a U.S. official traveling with Cohen.	CIRC
Commanded by a lieutenant general, the center is responsible for defending the skies in a 200-mile radius around China's capital.	CIRC
It has the ability to coordinate surface-to-air missile batteries; to track thousands of military and commercial planes in the region daily; and, most significantly, to generate an integrated response to a potential crisis, the official said.	CIRC
It was an interesting mixture of old and new . .	VERB
. of technology from the late 1950s and early 1980s	VERB
," the official said.	VERB
Some places had computers with large displays.	VERB
In other places, I smelled vacuum tubes" -- electronic components that preceded transistors.	VERB
One of the murkiest areas of China's military scope is its sales of components of weapons of mass destruction.	CIRC
Last week, Clinton certified that China has stopped selling nuclear-weapons-related material -- a problem that bedeviled U.S.-Chinese relations for years.	CIRC
U.S. officials say they are still concerned that China is exporting conventional missiles.	CIRC
On Monday, Cohen departed from the advance text of his speech at the military academy to express pleasure that Chi had reiterated assurances that missile sales to Iran had been halted.	MAIN
That pledge was made just before the Washington summit meeting, but Cohen said on his arrival in Beijing Saturday that he intended to follow up on the matter.	MAIN
U.S. officials said there was some confusion about whether China would fulfill existing missile contracts to Iran or cancel them as well, but Cohen declared: "I believe that we have assurances that such sales will not continue in the future.	VERB
At the same time, he warned that any disruption of the flow of oil from the Persian Gulf as a result of technology provided by the Chinese would have "a damaging effect on China's relations with many countries around the world, including the United States.	VERB
Nevertheless, Cohen's sojourn here highlighted significant advances in one of Washington's most sensitive military relationships -- between the world's most powerful country and its most populous one	EVAL
Less than two years ago, a U.S. aircraft carrier battle group was facing off against Chinese forces on military exercises near the Strait of Taiwan, and tensions were high in both capitals.	PREV
Still, the United States appears more eager than China to broaden the relationship.	EVAL
In recent months, U.S. military officials have suggested a number of initiatives on which the Chinese have either failed to respond or have watered down.	CIRC
Among other things, U.S. officials have asked that American and Chinese pilots be allowed to exchange visits; the Americans are particularly interested in flying China's new Russian-made SU-27 fighter jet.	CIRC
The Chinese have balked at the request, U.S. officials said.	CIRC
Cohen also called today for the two sides to visit each other's nuclear-weapons sites, and he noted that the Chinese were "studying" the request.	CIRC

Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu is to arrive in Washington to discuss Middle East peace this week after having whittled down expectations so insistently that even any sign of progress may be greeted as a ray of hope.	LEAD
His conservative cabinet members spent much of the week preced ing the premier's departure, set for Monday, elaborating what they would not do to make peace with the Palestinians, where they would not do it and according to what timetable they would see it not get done.	CIRC
For Netanyahu, who has long regarded the 1993 Israeli-Palestinian peace accords with distaste -- even though he has pledged to carry them out -- it is nothing new that his political opponents accuse him of dragging his feet on peace or subverting it.	HIST
What has changed in recent weeks is his government's standing, and his own hold on power.	EXPE
Neither seems to bode well for the peace prospects, many analysts here say.	EXPE
The resignation two weeks ago of Foreign Minister David Levy who, within the rightist cabinet was considered a moderate, set the tone for the cabinet moves that followed.	CIRC
The departure of Levy, who controls five seats in the Israeli parliament, left the government with a 61-59 parliamentary majority and significantly more susceptible to hard-line pressure, particularly on the land-for-peace formula at the heart of the Middle East peace process.	CIRC
Many conservatives in the Jewish state long have been uneasy with the land-for-peace trade-off, by which Israel would return Arab territory it captured in 1967 in exchange for guarantees of peace from the Arabs, seeing it as tantamount to forfeiting security.	CIRC
They say Israel should not withdraw any more troops from the West Bank until the Palestinians make significant progress on a range of security issues, including a crackdown on suspected terrorists operating from the territory.	CIRC
It's become land for war, land for bloodshed, land for terror," David Bar-Illan, a top adviser to Netanyahu, said in an interview.	VERB
Guided by that outlook, Netanyahu's cabinet staked out its position in a series of actions before his meeting Tuesday with President Clinton.	CIRC
First, the prime minister declared that even if the government decided to go ahead with any pullback of Israeli troops, it would have to wait -- possibly for months -- until the Palestinians complied with previous commitments on security and other matters that Israel contends have not yet been met.	MAIN
Next, the cabinet published an extensive list of accusations of Palestinian noncompliance, further emphasizing that no withdrawal would occur until the points were addressed.	MAIN
Finally, the cabinet declared large chunks of the West Bank as areas of Israel's "vital interests," suggesting they are nonnegotiable in any discussions of an eventual Palestinian state.	MAIN
Today, the cabinet delayed a decision on the land plan.	MAIN
Moreover, Israeli officials have said Netanyahu will not present Clinton with a map of the West Bank indicating from what areas Israeli troops might be withdrawn next.	MAIN
The White House has wanted such a proposal.	MAIN
The Clinton administration and left-wing critics of Netanyahu in Israel see the Israelis' moves primarily as bargaining positions but unhelpful nonetheless.	CIRC
Netanyahu "has a policy on the peace process -- to keep putting it off and putting it off," said Galia Golan, an activist for the advocacy group Peace Now.	VERB
He was and is opposed to [the 1993 accords] and believes in the idea of a Greater Israel.	VERB
But that did not mitigate the political reality in Israel that has Netanyahu in such a bind -- that any Israeli pullback from significant chunks of West Bank land could cause hard-liners to bolt from the cabinet, triggering the government's collapse.	EVAL
There is now a paradigm of a weak prime minister who claims not to have enough power to move in a serious direction and can only move incrementally," said Yaron Ezrahi, an Israeli political scientist.	VERB
And this means the Palestinians and Americans must choose between accepting [a small concession] and getting as much as one can get at this stage, even if it's contrary to some expectations and a sense of fairness, or trying to force a conflict that will either strengthen Netanyahu by making him appear as a hero to the Israeli right or destabilize his government with all the uncertainties that new elections and a campaign carry.	VERB
It's a very difficult choice.	VERB
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, scheduled to meet with Clinton two days after Netanyahu, has reacted in generally subdued tones while not hiding his frustration with the Israeli government's decisions.	CONS
At the same time, he has characterized the Washington meetings as a last gasp for the peace process, warning that failure could provoke a renewed popular uprising by the Palestinians against Israeli military occupation.	CONS
That warning has been repeated incessantly in the Israeli media, broadcast along with reports that the Palestinians and Israeli forces are covertly preparing for new hostilities.	CONS
The reports are dismaying to Jews and Palestinians here, who have been shown by clear majorities in public opinion polls to favor progress in the peace process.	CONS
It's easy to say the Arabs are to blame	VERB
but they'll just say we're to blame," said Mikhail Bykov, an Israeli in the West Bank settlement of Qiryat Arba, south of Jerusalem.	VERB
There's no alternative to the peace process.	VERB
If the other side's making steps toward peace, there's no reason we can't do the same.	VERB
Mindful of that strand of Israeli public opinion, and its corollary in the United States, Netanyahu has taken pains to launch a full-scale public relations offensive, insisting that he wants progress on peace -- but not at any cost.	CIRC
In his effort to remind people of a need to press the Palestinians on the issue of terror, Netanyahu is including as part of his official delegation in Washington two relatives of Israelis killed in terror attacks.	CONS
One is the widow of a man stabbed three years ago by a Palestinian who is now a police officer in Gaza, according to Bar-Illan, Netanyahu's adviser.	CONS
The other is the mother of a man killed near Jerusalem in 1996 by Palestinians now living in Jericho, in the West Bank, he said.	CONS
In both cases, Arafat's Palestinian Authority has done nothing to bring the killers to justice, according to Bar-Illan.	CONS
Arafat, meanwhile, will press his own public relations offensive, meeting with French President Jacques Chirac, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and other dignitaries on stops before he reaches Washington.	CONS

JERUSALEM,	LEAD
Jan. 18-	LEAD
Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu is to arrive in Washington to discuss Middle East peace this week after having whittled down expectations so insistently that even any sign of progress may be greeted as a ray of hope.	LEAD
His conservative cabinet members spent much of the week preced ing the premier's departure, set for Monday, elaborating what they would not do to make peace with the Palestinians, where they would not do it and according to what timetable they would see it not get done.	CIRC
For Netanyahu, who has long regarded the 1993 Israeli-Palestinian peace accords with distaste -- even though he has pledged to carry them out -- it is nothing new that his political opponents accuse him of dragging his feet on peace or subverting it.	HIST
What has changed in recent weeks is his government's standing, and his own hold on power.	VERB
Neither seems to bode well for the peace prospects, many analysts here say.	VERB
The resignation two weeks ago of Foreign Minister David Levy who, within the rightist cabinet was considered a moderate, set the tone for the cabinet moves that followed.	PREV
The departure of Levy, who controls five seats in the Israeli parliament, left the government with a 61-59 parliamentary majority and significantly more susceptible to hard-line pressure, particularly on the land-for-peace formula at the heart of the Middle East peace process.	PREV
Many conservatives in the Jewish state long have been uneasy with the land-for-peace trade-off, by which Israel would return Arab territory it captured in 1967 in exchange for guarantees of peace from the Arabs, seeing it as tantamount to forfeiting security.	CIRC
They say Israel should not withdraw any more troops from the West Bank until the Palestinians make significant progress on a range of security issues, including a crackdown on suspected terrorists operating from the territory.	CIRC
It's become land for war, land for bloodshed, land for terror," David Bar-Illan, a top adviser to Netanyahu, said in an interview.	VERB
Guided by that outlook, Netanyahu's cabinet staked out its position in a series of actions before his meeting Tuesday with President Clinton.	CIRC
First, the prime minister declared that even if the government decided to go ahead with any pullback of Israeli troops, it would have to wait -- possibly for months -- until the Palestinians complied with previous commitments on security and other matters that Israel contends have not yet been met.	MAIN
Next, the cabinet published an extensive list of accusations of Palestinian noncompliance, further emphasizing that no withdrawal would occur until the points were addressed.	MAIN
Finally, the cabinet declared large chunks of the West Bank as areas of Israel's "vital interests," suggesting they are nonnegotiable in any discussions of an eventual Palestinian state.	MAIN
Today, the cabinet delayed a decision on the land plan.	MAIN
Moreover, Israeli officials have said Netanyahu will not present Clinton with a map of the West Bank indicating from what areas Israeli troops might be withdrawn next.	MAIN
The White House has wanted such a proposal.	MAIN
The Clinton administration and left-wing critics of Netanyahu in Israel see the Israelis' moves primarily as bargaining positions but unhelpful nonetheless.	CIRC
Netanyahu "has a policy on the peace process -- to keep putting it off and putting it off," said Galia Golan, an activist for the advocacy group Peace Now.	VERB
He was and is opposed to [the 1993 accords] and believes in the idea of a Greater Israel.	VERB
But that did not mitigate the political reality in Israel that has Netanyahu in such a bind -- that any Israeli pullback from significant chunks of West Bank land could cause hard-liners to bolt from the cabinet, triggering the government's collapse.	EVAL
There is now a paradigm of a weak prime minister who claims not to have enough power to move in a serious direction and can only move incrementally," said Yaron Ezrahi, an Israeli political scientist.	VERB
And this means the Palestinians and Americans must choose between accepting [a small concession] and getting as much as one can get at this stage, even if it's contrary to some expectations and a sense of fairness, or trying to force a conflict that will either strengthen Netanyahu by making him appear as a hero to the Israeli right or destabilize his government with all the uncertainties that new elections and a campaign carry.	VERB
It's a very difficult choice.	VERB
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, scheduled to meet with Clinton two days after Netanyahu, has reacted in generally subdued tones while not hiding his frustration with the Israeli government's decisions.	CIRC
At the same time, he has characterized the Washington meetings as a last gasp for the peace process, warning that failure could provoke a renewed popular uprising by the Palestinians against Israeli military occupation.	CIRC
That warning has been repeated incessantly in the Israeli media, broadcast along with reports that the Palestinians and Israeli forces are covertly preparing for new hostilities.	CIRC
The reports are dismaying to Jews and Palestinians here, who have been shown by clear majorities in public opinion polls to favor progress in the peace process.	CIRC
It's easy to say the Arabs are to blame	VERB
but they'll just say we're to blame," said Mikhail Bykov, an Israeli in the West Bank settlement of Qiryat Arba, south of Jerusalem.	VERB
There's no alternative to the peace process.	VERB
If the other side's making steps toward peace, there's no reason we can't do the same.	VERB
Mindful of that strand of Israeli public opinion, and its corollary in the United States, Netanyahu has taken pains to launch a full-scale public relations offensive, insisting that he wants progress on peace -- but not at any cost.	CIRC
In his effort to remind people of a need to press the Palestinians on the issue of terror, Netanyahu is including as part of his official delegation in Washington two relatives of Israelis killed in terror attacks.	CIRC
One is the widow of a man stabbed three years ago by a Palestinian who is now a police officer in Gaza, according to Bar-Illan, Netanyahu's adviser.	HIST
The other is the mother of a man killed near Jerusalem in 1996 by Palestinians now living in Jericho, in the West Bank, he said.	HIST
In both cases, Arafat's Palestinian Authority has done nothing to bring the killers to justice, according to Bar-Illan.	HIST
Arafat, meanwhile, will press his own public relations offensive, meeting with French President Jacques Chirac, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and other dignitaries on stops before he reaches Washington.	CIRC

The nation's census director, after fighting with Congress for two years over how to conduct the next population count, announced yesterday she is quitting, leaving unfilled a critical leadership position as the nation heads into the 2000 census.	LEAD
Martha Farnsworth Riche said that the dispute with Republican congressional leaders did not directly lead to her resignation, but several people who know her well said she was frustrated by the political battle and the prospect that it would continue for another two years.	MAIN
This is going to be a brutal fight," said Rep. Thomas C. Sawyer (D-Ohio)	VERB
who has been closely involved in the census and is among those who believes the ongoing debate played a role in Riche's departure.	CIRC
Replacing Riche will be, by all accounts, enormously difficult, given the disagreement over the census that divides the Clinton administration and the Republican leadership in Congress, whose approval is necessary for Senate confirmation.	EXPE
The dispute centers on a technical question with broad political repercussions: Republican leaders, particularly in the House, are adamantly opposed to the administration's plan to combine head counts with statistical estimates to arrive at a national population count.	CIRC
Riche, backed by a National Academy of Sciences panel, has argued steadfastly that in order to improve its accuracy, the census should rely more than ever before on sampling, which gathers information from a random selection of households and then uses that to extrapolate characteristics for a larger group.	CIRC
The idea is to get a better gauge for accounting for millions of Americans, predominantly poor and minorities, who have been missed when the government has relied almost exclusively on a door-to-door head count.	CIRC
Sampling, because it would increase the numbers of minorities counted in the census, is generally considered likely to benefit Democrats more than Republicans.	CIRC
With that issue unresolved, the bureau is heading into the final planning stages for the 2000 census, a $ 4 billion effort that will employ 300,000 people.	CONS
Rep. Dan Miller (R-Fla.), who heads the House subcommittee that oversees the census, said he was startled by Riche's departure.	VERB
I have expressed my concern that we are rapidly headed toward a failed census in 2000," he said in a statement.	VERB
Riche's sudden departure adds to my anxiety. . . .	VERB
Riche said yesterday she was leaving to pursue other interests, including writing and teaching, and an administration source said she had been offered a lecturing position at Princeton University.	MAIN
I have done what I came to do," she said, citing improved methods of collecting and managing the nation's statistical system.	MAIN
She said she had not made a commitment to the administration to stay through the 2000 census.	MAIN
Riche has in the past expressed her frustration that the controversy over sampling had forced her to focus most of her attention and energy on the 2000 head count, while the agency is also responsible for numerous other projects.	PREV
I want a life," she said.	PREV
This is a tough job.	PREV
I can't tell you how many people say, 'That's a thankless job.'	PREV
Why would somebody want to stay in a thankless job when they've done what they wanted to do?	PREV
Riche, 58, an economist who helped found American Demographics magazine, took office in 1994, the day before the electoral victory that gave the Republican Party control of Congress.	HIST
Others say Riche was in an nearly impossible role.	VERB
The difficulty in that position is being stuck between the scholarly community, advising her how to take a good census, and the political community, reacting to political forces," said William O'Hare, a demographer with the Annie E. Casey Foundation.	VERB
A Commerce Department spokesman said the administration would begin the process of appointing an acting director soon and then search for a permanent replacement.	VERB
However, several congressional sources expressed concern that replacing Riche with someone who meets Republican approval could be difficult, because any nominee's position on sampling could emerge as a litmus test.	VERB
It is unlikely the White House would nominate a successor who did not support sampling, and equally unlikely Republican leaders would look favorably on such a candidate.	VERB
That raises the prospect that the position could go unfilled for a long period, even as the Census Bureau conducts its rehearsal of the census this spring and begins final preparations for the 2000 count.	EXPE
According to the administration's plan, census employees would attempt to collect a questionnaire from every household, but then contact a statistically representative sample of people who failed to respond.	CONS
The results of that sample would be used to arrive at a total population figure and the race, income and other characteristics of those who could not be counted directly.	CONS
Republicans, particularly those in the House, have maintained that such a process is subject to manipulation, less accurate than a traditional head count and unconstitutional.	VERB
In the appropriations bill approved late last year, Congress allowed the bureau to test sampling this spring, but vowed to renew the fight before the 2000 census.	CIRC

The Senate yesterday confirmed three federal judges in its first official action of the year, slightly reducing the backlog of nominations that has drawn criticism from both President Clinton and Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist.	LEAD
But the dispute over the Senate's pace in dealing with nominations continued, with Republicans defending the record while Democrats charged the GOP with politicizing the process.	CIRC
By a vote of 67 to 30, the Senate confirmed Ann L. Aiken for a U.S. District Court vacancy in Oregon.	MAIN
Her nomination had been held up for months by Sen. Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), who accused her of leniency in sentencing a child molester when she was a state court judge.	MAIN
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) said that while Aiken would not have been his choice, she "demonstrated to me that she understands the proper role of a federal judge in our constitutional system.	VERB
By voice vote, the Senate also confirmed Richard W. Story for the federal district court in Georgia and Barry G. Silverman of Arizona for the Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which has jurisdiction over California and other western states.	MAIN
Yesterday's action reduces the list of judicial vacancies to 85, or about 10 percent of the federal judiciary.	CONS
The Senate confirmed 17 judges in 1996 and 36 judges last year, drawing accusations of foot-dragging from Democrats.	CONS
Hatch and others said Clinton was mostly to blame because he was slow to make nominations.	CONS
More than 50 nominations are pending before the Senate, including 12 made on Tuesday.	CIRC
The long-simmering dispute over the Senate's performance on nominations came to a head when Rehnquist warned in a year-end report that the judicial vacancies were threatening the nation's "quality of justice" and the White House pounced on his words to mount a campaign for speedier action.	PREV
With early decisions on Aiken, Story and Silverman, Senate Republicans tried to show they are not delaying confirmations.	EVAL
If the White House intends to wage a battle over the nominations to portray the Republicans as anti-women and anti-minority, as newspapers have reported, then that is "certainly a poor way to begin what I hope will turn out to be a cooperative effort to confirm federal judges," Hatch said.	VERB
Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (Vt.), the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary panel, responded that Republicans are jeopardizing the "independence and integrity" of the judiciary by trying to hold up Clinton's nominees and threatening other steps, including House threats of impeachment proceedings against liberal judges.	VERB
"Partisan and narrow ideological efforts to impose political litmus tests on judicial nominees and to shut down the judiciary must stop," Leahy said.	VERB
In another contested nomination, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.) said he intends to seek a vote next week on David Satcher as surgeon general.	VERB
Some Republicans have threatened to try to block the nomination because of Satcher's support for administration policy opposing legislation to ban a procedure that some call "partial-birth" abortion.	VERB
The Senate yesterday confirmed three federal judges in its first official action of the year, slightly reducing the backlog of nominations that has drawn criticism from both President Clinton and Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist.	LEAD
But the dispute over the Senate's pace in dealing with nominations continued, with Republicans defending the record while Democrats charged the GOP with politicizing the process.	CONS
By a vote of 67 to 30, the Senate confirmed Ann L. Aiken for a U.S. District Court vacancy in Oregon.	MAIN
Her nomination had been held up for months by Sen. Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), who accused her of leniency in sentencing a child molester when she was a state court judge.	MAIN
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Orrin G. Hatch (R-Utah) said that while Aiken would not have been his choice, she "demonstrated to me that she understands the proper role of a federal judge in our constitutional system.	VERB
By voice vote, the Senate also confirmed Richard W. Story for the federal district court in Georgia and Barry G. Silverman of Arizona for the Ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, which has jurisdiction over California and other western states.	MAIN
Yesterday's action reduces the list of judicial vacancies to 85, or about 10 percent of the federal judiciary.	CONS
The Senate confirmed 17 judges in 1996 and 36 judges last year, drawing accusations of foot-dragging from Democrats.	CONS
Hatch and others said Clinton was mostly to blame because he was slow to make nominations.	CONS
More than 50 nominations are pending before the Senate, including 12 made on Tuesday.	CIRC
The long-simmering dispute over the Senate's performance on nominations came to a head when Rehnquist warned in a year-end report that the judicial vacancies were threatening the nation's "quality of justice" and the White House pounced on his words to mount a campaign for speedier action.	CIRC
With early decisions on Aiken, Story and Silverman, Senate Republicans tried to show they are not delaying confirmations.	EVAL
If the White House intends to wage a battle over the nominations to portray the Republicans as anti-women and anti-minority, as newspapers have reported, then that is "certainly a poor way to begin what I hope will turn out to be a cooperative effort to confirm federal judges," Hatch said.	VERB
Sen. Patrick J. Leahy (Vt.), the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary panel, responded that Republicans are jeopardizing the "independence and integrity" of the judiciary by trying to hold up Clinton's nominees and threatening other steps, including House threats of impeachment proceedings against liberal judges.	VERB
"Partisan and narrow ideological efforts to impose political litmus tests on judicial nominees and to shut down the judiciary must stop," Leahy said.	VERB
In another contested nomination, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-Miss.) said he intends to seek a vote next week on David Satcher as surgeon general.	VERB
Some Republicans have threatened to try to block the nomination because of Satcher's support for administration policy opposing legislation to ban a procedure that some call "partial-birth" abortion.	VERB

RAMALLAH, West Bank, Feb.9- Five months after Washington and Bogota reached an agreement allowing renewal of U.S. aid to Colombia's military, its army has received no funding because it has failed to provide U.S. officials with information that would enable units using the aid to be purged of suspected human rights abusers.	LEAD
The agreement, signed Aug. 1, permits the United States to supply ammunition, vehicles, and communication and navigational equipment to the military.	CIRC
They were to be used to fight drug trafficking in a specific geographic area that includes most of the southern half of the country.	CIRC
But because of the army's poor human rights record in the past decade, the United States made its help conditional on the Colombian military's human rights performance and established a joint vetting process for units receiving the aid.	CIRC
The agreement says the Colombian government is to provide semiannual certification to the U.S. Embassy "regarding any ongoing formal investigations or prosecutions, or any penalties applied, with respect to gross violations of human rights by any member of the units operating in the designated area.	CIRC
The aid was expected to total about $ 37 million in fiscal 1998, but U.S. officials said the delays in designating and vetting the units could mean less aid would be disbursed.	VERB
Aid to the Colombian military was formally cut off in 1996, after the U.S. government, for the second year in a row, said Colombia had failed to cooperate fully in fighting drug trafficking.	HIST
The second failure to be certified triggered the cutoff, but President Clinton issued a waiver allowing aid to resume after an agreement was reached on how and where it would be used.	HIST
Colombia is one of the world's most violent countries.	CIRC
Guerrillas in the longest-running Marxist insurgency in the hemisphere are battling the army, as well as the right-wing paramilitary organizations that it often tolerates.	CIRC
All sides are involved, to varying degrees, in the lucrative drug trade.	CIRC
According to news service reports, at least 24 people were killed yesterday and Thursday in attacks by guerrillas and paramilitaries.	PREV
Guerrillas reportedly attacked a remote police post in the northern province of Magdalena, killing two policemen, a 3-year-old girl and a 17-year-old boy.	PREV
A guerrilla was also reported killed.	PREV
And in a rash of four attacks in the northwest, paramilitary groups killed nine people, the reports said.	PREV
While U.S. aid to Colombia is supposed to fight drug trafficking, the military can use it in areas where the leftist guerrillas are active.	CIRC
The likelihood that U.S. funds would be used for the counterinsurgency campaign made the U.S.-Colombian agreement controversial within the administration.	CIRC
The navy and air force -- unlike the army -- moved quickly to name and vet their units, and have received several million dollars in aid, according to U.S. government officials.	PREV
But most of the aid was to go to the army.	PREV
Officials said they were unable to determine exactly how much money had gone to the navy and air force.	PREV
The army is not adequately vetting its units at this time," said a U.S. official monitoring the aid.	VERB
They did give us a list of units to receive aid, but it was so confused, we had to send it back to them and ask them to clean it up.	VERB
That was just before Christmas, and we hope to hear back from them soon.	VERB
Another U.S. official said the Colombian army had difficulty finding any units without serious human rights violations, thus slowing the process.	VERB
The question is, is there anyone we can deal with out there?" the official asked.	VERB
There are so many problems; it is very complicated.	VERB
Fidel Cano, a spokesman for the Colombian Embassy here, acknowledged the delays in compiling the army's information but said putting together such data as who belongs to what unit and which human rights investigations are underway is complicated.	VERB
Our Ministry of Defense is working very hard with the U.S. Embassy in Bogota to get the information together," Cano said.	VERB
We are giving it a high priority; it is not something that we have forgotten.	VERB
Five months after Washington and Bogota reached an agreement allowing renewal of U.S. aid to Colombia's military, its army has received no funding because it has failed to provide U.S. officials with information that would enable units using the aid to be purged of suspected human rights abusers.	LEAD
The agreement, signed Aug. 1, permits the United States to supply ammunition, vehicles, and communication and navigational equipment to the military.	CIRC
They were to be used to fight drug trafficking in a specific geographic area that includes most of the southern half of the country.	CIRC
But because of the army's poor human rights record in the past decade, the United States made its help conditional on the Colombian military's human rights performance and established a joint vetting process for units receiving the aid.	CIRC
The agreement says the Colombian government is to provide semiannual certification to the U.S. Embassy "regarding any ongoing formal investigations or prosecutions, or any penalties applied, with respect to gross violations of human rights by any member of the units operating in the designated area.	CIRC
The aid was expected to total about $ 37 million in fiscal 1998, but U.S. officials said the delays in designating and vetting the units could mean less aid would be disbursed.	CIRC
Aid to the Colombian military was formally cut off in 1996, after the U.S. government, for the second year in a row, said Colombia had failed to cooperate fully in fighting drug trafficking.	HIST
The second failure to be certified triggered the cutoff, but President Clinton issued a waiver allowing aid to resume after an agreement was reached on how and where it would be used.	HIST
Colombia is one of the world's most violent countries.	HIST
Guerrillas in the longest-running Marxist insurgency in the hemisphere are battling the army, as well as the right-wing paramilitary organizations that it often tolerates.	HIST
All sides are involved, to varying degrees, in the lucrative drug trade.	HIST
According to news service reports, at least 24 people were killed yesterday and Thursday in attacks by guerrillas and paramilitaries.	CIRC
Guerrillas reportedly attacked a remote police post in the northern province of Magdalena, killing two policemen, a 3-year-old girl and a 17-year-old boy.	CIRC
A guerrilla was also reported killed.	CIRC
And in a rash of four attacks in the northwest, paramilitary groups killed nine people, the reports said.	CIRC
While U.S. aid to Colombia is supposed to fight drug trafficking, the military can use it in areas where the leftist guerrillas are active.	CIRC
The likelihood that U.S. funds would be used for the counterinsurgency campaign made the U.S.-Colombian agreement controversial within the administration.	CIRC
The navy and air force -- unlike the army -- moved quickly to name and vet their units, and have received several million dollars in aid, according to U.S. government officials.	PREV
But most of the aid was to go to the army.	PREV
Officials said they were unable to determine exactly how much money had gone to the navy and air force.	PREV
The army is not adequately vetting its units at this time," said a U.S. official monitoring the aid.	VERB
They did give us a list of units to receive aid, but it was so confused, we had to send it back to them and ask them to clean it up.	VERB
That was just before Christmas, and we hope to hear back from them soon.	VERB
Another U.S. official said the Colombian army had difficulty finding any units without serious human rights violations, thus slowing the process.	VERB
The question is, is there anyone we can deal with out there?" the official asked.	VERB
There are so many problems; it is very complicated.	VERB
Fidel Cano, a spokesman for the Colombian Embassy here, acknowledged the delays in compiling the army's information but said putting together such data as who belongs to what unit and which human rights investigations are underway is complicated.	VERB
Our Ministry of Defense is working very hard with the U.S. Embassy in Bogota to get the information together," Cano said.	VERB
We are giving it a high priority; it is not something that we have forgotten.	VERB

AT&T Corp. made its biggest move yet into the local telephone market yesterday by agreeing to acquire Teleport Communications Group Inc. for $ 11.3 billion.	LEAD
The purchase, which was approved by the boards of both companies, marks the first major effort by new AT&T Chairman C. Michael Armstrong to revive AT&T, which has been slow to react to mounting threats to its core long-distance telephone business.	EVAL
It's an indication that Mike Armstrong is serious about local competition and serious about getting moving," said Anna-Marie Kovacs, an analyst for the brokerage firm	VERB
Janney Montgomery Scott Inc. "AT&T and Teleport are going after the business market, which is where local companies make a lot of their money.	VERB
The deal also will give three major cable television companies, which are majority owners of Teleport, a collective 10 percent stake in AT&T.	CONS
By acquiring Teleport, AT&T can offer business customers local and long-distance telephone service, and data and Internet access, under its own brand name.	CONS
Using Teleport's local facilities, the company also would be able to reduce the fees it pays to local phone companies for access to local telephone customers.	CONS
It's going to permit us to be much more cost-effective as we go for that local business," Armstrong said at a news briefing.	VERB
This has competition and growth written all over it.	VERB
AT&T is paying for Teleport with its stock.	CIRC
Teleport shareholders will receive 0.943 AT&T shares for each of their Teleport shares, putting the deal at $ 59 a share based on AT&T's closing price yesterday of $ 62.62 1/2 a share, up $ 2.62 1/2.	CONS
Teleport closed down $ 3.62 1/2 at $ 54.12 1/2 a share.	CONS
The companies expect the deal, which must be approved by regulators and shareholders, to close by fall.	VERB
Teleport, based in Staten Island, N.Y., leads a new breed of local phone competitors that are invading urban markets to grab the most lucrative business customers from the regional Bell companies, GTE Corp. and other dominant local carriers.	CIRC
The company is not yet profitable, but is expected to post revenue of $ 500 million in 1997.	CIRC
Teleport is the largest independent "competitive local exchange carrier," with fiber-optic phone networks in 66 local markets nationwide, including Washington, Baltimore, New York and Los Angeles.	CIRC
Its major shareholders include cable giants Tele-Communications Inc., Comcast Corp. and Cox Enterprises Inc.	CIRC
The deal would collectively give those cable firms a 10 percent stake in AT&T, which raises new possibilities for AT&T and the cable television industry.	CONS
Cable operators, for example, could begin providing AT&T-branded Internet access over their cable lines.	CONS
AT&T also may one day offer Internet-based telephone service to customers through their cable service.	CONS
I wouldn't be surprised if we saw further talks between AT&T and cable," said Brian Adamik, an analyst for the Boston-based consulting firm Yankee Group.	VERB
"Let's face it, there are only two wires into the home.	VERB
The whole issue of cable-telephone could rise again.	VERB
Teleport Chairman Robert Annunziata, 49, a 17-year AT&T veteran who left in 1983 to form Teleport, will become an executive vice president of AT&T and head up the company's local services unit.	CONS
AT&T has had trouble breaking into the $ 110 billion local telephone market despite the Telecommunications Act of 1996, which required the Bells and other local carriers to make their local phone lines and equipment available for leasing and connection by competitors.	CIRC
Residential competition has remained elusive, largely because it's too expensive for rivals to build their own facilities into every home.	EVAL
Instead, AT&T and other rivals had hoped to lease phone lines from the Bells and other local carriers, but are engaged in a battle with the Bells over the prices for such access.	EVAL
Companies such as Teleport have been posing the only significant competition to the regional Bells and other local telephone incumbents.	EVAL
WorldCom Inc. has the largest presence in urban competitive phone routes through its 1996 purchase of MFS Communications Co. for $ 14 billion in stock, and its 1997 acquisition of Brooks Fiber Properties Inc. for $ 2.4 billion, announced on the day WorldCom made its bid to acquire MCI Communications Corp.	HIST
Armstrong would not comment on possible future alliances with cable operators	VERB
One of his first moves upon taking the job in October, after leaving his post as chairman of Hughes Electronics Co., was to sell AT&T's investment in Hughes's DirecTV unit, the cable industry's chief direct-broadcast satellite rival.	PREV

Former housing secretary Henry Cisneros pleaded not guilty yesterday to felony charges that he lied to the FBI about paying $ 250,000 in hush money to a former mistress.	LEAD
He is charged with a multifaceted conspiracy in which he allegedly worked frantically before, during and after his confirmation as housing secretary to keep his ex-mistress from disclosing their long relationship and the extent of payments he made to her to keep their relationship quiet.	MAIN
The grand jury said that Cisneros also made payments to a second woman whom the ex-mistress, Linda Medlar, knew about, and that Medlar was being paid to keep that quiet as well.	MAIN
Initially, it appeared that Cisneros and Medlar, who also is charged in the case, would not appear together in the courtroom.	MAIN
At the start of the arraignment, U.S. District Judge Stanley Sporkin announced that Medlar would not make her appearance until later in the day.	MAIN
But just after Cisneros and two other defendants had settled into their seats at the defense table, the courtroom door burst open.	MAIN
Attorney Roger Adelman, a burly former federal prosecutor, stormed into the well of the court with Medlar trailing behind him.	MAIN
Adelman launched rapid-fire into the arraignment routine, leaving Sporkin's clerk somewhat speechless.	MAIN
He quickly waived formal reading of the 66-page indictment and announced that his client was pleading not guilty to all charges.	MAIN
You are always ahead of the game, Mr. Adelman," Sporkin said, chuckling.	VERB
When Medlar joined the other defendants yesterday at the defense table, Cisneros looked directly at her, and they appeared to acknowledge each other.	MAIN
But she did not hold his gaze and sat at the far end of the table, leaning away from the others.	MAIN
Their trial was set for Nov. 4.	CIRC
Cisneros, 43, a former mayor of San Antonio, headed the Department of Housing and Urban Development from 1993 through 1996 and once was considered a rising star in national politics.	HIST
He was indicted last month on charges of conspiracy, obstruction of justice and making false statements.	HIST
Outside the courthouse, Cisneros spoke out for the first time since he was indicted, addressing reporters in English and Spanish: "I regret the pain that this matter has caused my wife, my children, my parents and my family.	CONS
They are wonderful, good, loving people.	CONS
I care deeply about my community, and I love our country, which I've tried to serve in a number of different capacities.	VERB
I came to Washington to try to do good, and I'm proud of the good we were able to do," said Cisneros, accompanied by his attorney,	VERB
Brendan V. Sullivan Jr. "	VERB
I have deep faith and trust in America's institutions and particularly believe in the inherent fairness of our judicial system.	VERB
Cisneros now lives in Los Angeles, where he is president of Univision, a Spanish-language television network.	CIRC
Medlar, 45, of Lubbock, Tex., is also charged with conspiracy and making a false statement.	CIRC
She goes on trial Jan. 15 in Lubbock in a related case for conspiracy to commit bank fraud in connection with a house purchased in the names of her relatives with money she allegedly received from Cisneros.	CIRC
In the Lubbock case, her attorney, a public defender, has filed motions to suppress statements she made to independent counsel David M. Barrett's assistants.	CIRC
Her Lubbock lawyer alleges that Medlar was having serious emotional problems, and that prosecutors knew it.	CIRC
Barrett's office initially entered into a cooperation agreement with her in November 1995.	PREV
But prosecutors became suspicious of her.	PREV
In the Washington case, she is charged with lying to the FBI when she said she had given original tapes to the Internal Revenue Service of conversations with Cisneros she had secretly recorded.	PREV
Because Medlar says she cannot afford to pay for an attorney, taxpayers will be paying legal fees for Adelman, who is court-appointed.	CIRC
The two other defendants in the Washington case are former Cisneros aides Sylvia Arce-Garcia, 43, of Los Angeles, and John D. Rosales, 41, of the Washington area.	CIRC
Arce-Garcia is charged with conspiracy.	CIRC
Rosales is charged with conspiracy and two counts of making false statements.	CIRC

President-elect Kim Dae Jung today blamed much of Asia's devastating financial crisis on governments that "lie" to their people and "authoritarian" leaders who place economic growth ahead of democratic freedoms.	LEAD
Many of the leaders of Asian society have been saying that military dictatorship was the way and democracy was not good for their nations," Kim said in a wide-ranging 90-minute interview at his home in this suburb of Seoul.	MAIN
They concentrated only on economic development," he said, without singling out any nations but referring to "Asian-style democracy," in which governments are built around a strong leader who controls economic policy.	MAIN
I believe that the fundamental cause of the financial crisis, including here in Korea, is because of placing economic development ahead of democracy.	MAIN
Kim, a crusader for democracy and human rights who was imprisoned, exiled and sentenced to death, and who survived assassination attempts at the hands of South Korea's previous military dictators,	PREV
also said he hopes his life will inspire his nation's youth.	MAIN
If parents can tell their kids, 'Look at Kim Dae Jung:	MAIN
Live upright, put your effort into a good cause and you will be successful,	MAIN
' then I think my life would be very meaningful," said Kim	MAIN
who won the presidency last month on his fourth attempt in a quarter-century.	CIRC
Kim also reaffirmed his "100 percent commitment" to the $ 57 billion bailout of his country's crippled economy by the International Monetary Fund.	MAIN
Although the IMF is requiring tough reforms that are expected to lead to unprecedented layoffs and corporate bankruptcies, Kim, who has close ties with the nation's militant labor unions, said he believes he can negotiate a deal to avert massive strikes, which would hamper the recovery of the world's 11th-largest economy.	MAIN
Kim described South Korea's relationship with the United States as "mutually beneficial" on matters of economic trade and security.	MAIN
He supported the continued presence of 37,000 U.S. troops to deter aggression from Stalinist North Korea.	MAIN
who is seen as far more moderate toward the North than outgoing President Kim Young Sam	EVAL
said he will move "aggressively" to provide emergency food aid to the famine-stricken North.	MAIN
Kim Dae Jung said that his hopes to engage the Pyongyang government more openly, perhaps even through a meeting with reclusive leader Kim Jong Il, were well known to the North Koreans and "we are just waiting for their response.	MAIN
Two days after his 74th birthday, Kim Dae Jung appeared rested, robust and confident as he discussed the triumph and tragedy of his life and the severe problems facing the nation he will lead after he is sworn in on Feb. 25.	CIRC
Kim spoke over a breakfast of hot cereal, eggs, ham, sausage and fruit in the dining room of his two-story stone house, nestled into a community of comfortable, single-family houses 20 miles north of Seoul.	CIRC
Kim's house is just 10 miles from the tense Demilitarized Zone separating the two Koreas; the highway to his town is lined with a fence topped with coils of barbed wire to keep North Korean agents from coming ashore from the Han River.	CIRC
Outside Kim's house, uniformed security guards stood on every corner for several blocks in each direction.	CIRC
Security officers were also stationed inside the house, where a small downstairs room has been turned into a communications center, linked to a large, temporary command center that was built on the lot next-door immediately after the election.	CIRC
Kim laughingly noted that the security agents resemble those stationed outside his home in the 1980s, when he was under house arrest in Seoul.	MAIN
These people are now protecting me; before, they were trying to contain me," he said.	MAIN
The thought of doing this for five years in the [presidential] Blue House makes me a little uneasy, even embarrassed.	MAIN
Kim spoke at length about the financial crisis facing South Korea, arguing that the nation needs a thorough reform of government and of the corporate financial structures that have led it to the brink of insolvency.	MAIN
In order to rejuvenate the Korean economy, I believe we have to do two things," Kim said.	MAIN
The first is to increase our export volume, and the other is to induce foreign investment.	MAIN
We will be very aggressive on both.	MAIN
Our new administration is going to take all these policies not because of the requirement by the international community or the IMF, but we will take this opportunity to reform our economic system so that we can be competitive in the world economy.	MAIN
Kim said he believes the problem in South Korea has been a lack of the transparency in government and finance that befits a fully functioning democracy.	MAIN
The Asian crisis that swept from Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia to South Korea, and which now threatens Japan, resulted from a failure to install a vibrant democracy to keep governments and markets accountable, he said.	MAIN
If we had true democracy in Korea, then the collusive intimacy between business and government and corruption would not have been as great here.	MAIN
And the wealth would not have been allocated to only a few people.	MAIN
Usually the dictatorship or authoritarian style of government lies to people.	MAIN
We've been told we are very wealthy, and we have been told to spend dollars abroad because we had too many of them.	MAIN
We had approximately $ 40 billion of deficit when President Kim Young Sam came in, and now we have $ 150 billion of deficit.	MAIN
So, basically, we've been living well off the loans that we've been given; the people have been deceived, and that's why we have this financial crisis.	MAIN
Kim dispatched a team of advisers to New York and Washington this week to meet with U.S. officials and international bankers who are considering ways to help South Korea out of its financial mess.	CIRC
Kim said South Korea's immediate problem is that it has $ 90 billion in short-term loans coming due in the next few months.	MAIN
The bankers in New York, representing some of the world's largest financial institutions, are trying to devise ways to roll over those loans or find other solutions to give Seoul more breathing room on its short-term debt.	CIRC
One proposal is for the banks to extend the maturities on some of the debt in exchange for the South Korean government's guaranteeing of some debt now held by banks or other private institutions.	VERB
While the notion of the government putting itself on the hook for private debtors has been controversial, officials at the Finance Ministry have said it may in fact do so.	VERB
If that becomes the only choice, I will consider it," Kim said.	MAIN
I think it is necessary to make the rollover, and it is important to make the creditors feel safe.	MAIN
International financier George Soros visited Kim this week and told reporters later that a government guarantee of private debt would not solve South Korea's problems.	VERB
Soros also strongly advised the government not to borrow more money to pay off loans that are coming due.	VERB
But the government is reportedly planning to do just that; media reports here say it plans to borrow as much as $ 35 billion to pay off loans, turning debts due now into debts due later.	CIRC
The ultimate solution to South Korea's problems, Kim said, is increased investment, especially by foreigners.	MAIN
He said Seoul is moving quickly toward removing limits on foreign ownership of stocks and real estate, as well as upgrading South Korea's murky accounting practices, which make it virtually impossible to assess the health of a company -- or the government.	MAIN
We want to induce investment by making foreign investors feel they have no problems here," Kim said.	MAIN
During the election campaign, Kim alarmed foreign investors and analysts by suggesting that Seoul should renegotiate the IMF deal.	PREV
Today, he conceded that he initially did not "understand the full depth" of the financial crisis, and he blamed outgoing President Kim for misleading him and the South Korean people.	MAIN
The current government had been telling everybody that the economy was doing well, and that we were the 11th-largest economic power, and the per capita [GDP] was over $ 10,000 and we did not have any problem with the dollar [exchange rate].	MAIN
So I did not fully comprehend the situation; nor did any of the Korean people.	MAIN

THOMAS, Virgin Islands, Jan. 4	LEAD
- President Clinton will meet with Israeli and Palestinian leaders separately in Washington later this month in an attempt to revitalize the Middle East peace process that all but died last year, the White House announced today.	LEAD
Clinton will host Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu at the White House on Jan. 20 and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat two days later.	MAIN
There are no plans to bring the two adversaries together, aides said.	MAIN
Clinton has warned both publicly that the peace process is in danger of collapsing if they do not resume full negotiations soon.	MAIN
The president thought this was the right time to bring both leaders to Washington to try to move the peace process forward," said deputy press secretary Joe Lockhart, who announced the visits here during the final day of Clinton's winter vacation.	VERB
The administration has been trying to push the two sides back on track after months of renewed hostility born out of Israeli housing projects in disputed neighborhoods, stalled West Bank troop redeployments and Arab terrorist attacks in Jewish areas.	CIRC
With Middle East peace once thought to be a central achievement of his foreign policy, Clinton feels increasingly anxious that the progress he helped bring about may evaporate and leave the volatile region as unsettled as ever.	CIRC
He was so irritated with what he saw as intransigence by Netanyahu in particular that he declined to meet with the Israeli leader when he was in Washington in November, a move the prime minister later branded an "insult.	PREV
Administration officials in Washington said they hope this month's back-to-back meetings will produce a framework for beginning the next stage of negotiations on "final status" issues such as the fate of Jerusalem and a Palestinian homeland.	VERB
It would be good, but we will see whether there's enough concrete progress to do that," one senior official who insisted on anonymity said in a telephone interview.	VERB
That's clearly the objective.	VERB
Another official, who also declined to be named, said Clinton wants to see tangible movement on the part of both leaders when they arrive in Washington.	VERB
We're hoping the prime minister will come with a clear position on further withdrawal [of troops from disputed territory] and the timeout [on housing construction] -- the two elements we have been talking about with the Israelis since the summer," the official said.	VERB
From Arafat, he added, Clinton will be "looking to see if there is continuing concrete performance in security cooperation.	VERB
We're seeing progress in the right direction over the last six months, but that is something that has to be unremitting, and there can be no letdown there.	VERB
The administration has the impression that both leaders have been nearing the point where they can resume negotiations but have cautiously held back.	VERB
A presidential shove, Clinton aides calculate, may be what is needed to break the standoff.	VERB
The administration this week is dispatching special Middle East envoy Dennis Ross to the region, where he will meet with both Netanyahu and Arafat and then report back to Clinton.	EXPE
President Clinton will meet with Israeli and Palestinian leaders separately in Washington later this month in an attempt to revitalize the Middle East peace process that all but died last year, the White House announced today.	LEAD
Clinton will host Israeli Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu at the White House on Jan. 20 and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat two days later.	MAIN
There are no plans to bring the two adversaries together, aides said.	MAIN
Clinton has warned both publicly that the peace process is in danger of collapsing if they do not resume full negotiations soon.	MAIN
The president thought this was the right time to bring both leaders to Washington to try to move the peace process forward," said deputy press secretary Joe Lockhart, who announced the visits here during the final day of Clinton's winter vacation.	VERB
The administration has been trying to push the two sides back on track after months of renewed hostility born out of Israeli housing projects in disputed neighborhoods, stalled West Bank troop redeployments and Arab terrorist attacks in Jewish areas.	CIRC
With Middle East peace once thought to be a central achievement of his foreign policy, Clinton feels increasingly anxious that the progress he helped bring about may evaporate and leave the volatile region as unsettled as ever.	CIRC
He was so irritated with what he saw as intransigence by Netanyahu in particular that he declined to meet with the Israeli leader when he was in Washington in November, a move the prime minister later branded an "insult.	PREV
Administration officials in Washington said they hope this month's back-to-back meetings will produce a framework for beginning the next stage of negotiations on "final status" issues such as the fate of Jerusalem and a Palestinian homeland.	VERB
It would be good, but we will see whether there's enough concrete progress to do that," one senior official who insisted on anonymity said in a telephone interview.	VERB
That's clearly the objective.	VERB
Another official, who also declined to be named, said Clinton wants to see tangible movement on the part of both leaders when they arrive in Washington.	VERB
We're hoping the prime minister will come with a clear position on further withdrawal [of troops from disputed territory] and the timeout [on housing construction] -- the two elements we have been talking about with the Israelis since the summer," the official said.	VERB
From Arafat, he added, Clinton will be "looking to see if there is continuing concrete performance in security cooperation.	VERB
We're seeing progress in the right direction over the last six months, but that is something that has to be unremitting, and there can be no letdown there.	VERB
The administration has the impression that both leaders have been nearing the point where they can resume negotiations but have cautiously held back.	VERB
A presidential shove, Clinton aides calculate, may be what is needed to break the standoff.	VERB
The administration this week is dispatching special Middle East envoy Dennis Ross to the region, where he will meet with both Netanyahu and Arafat and then report back to Clinton.	CONS

American Mobile Satellite Corp. announced yesterday that it will purchase Motorola Inc.'s electronic-messaging business, known as Ardis, for $ 100 million in stock and cash, a move that would make the Reston company one of the country's largest suppliers of mobile data-service devices to professionals who are frequently out of their offices but need to stay in touch with dispatchers and managers.	LEAD
Ardis, which covers more than 425 cities in North America, uses radio towers to provide data messages to mobile business users -- for example, copy machine or elevator repair people.	CIRC
AMSC, meanwhile, uses satellites to provide both voice and data message services to people who work in outlying areas, including truck drivers and boat captains.	CIRC
The acquisition is contingent on government regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first quarter of this year.	CONS
If the deal is approved, AMSC said its emphasis would shift to data, rather than voice, services.	CONS
AMSC anticipates that more than 80 percent of its revenue would come from data services, and close to 90 percent of its customer base would use such services.	CONS
The split is now about 50-50, Parsons said.	CONS
This seems like a good strategic fit for AMSC in that it will give them ubiquitous service," said Robert Kaimowitz, a satellite industry analyst for C.E. Unterberg, Towbin in New York.	VERB
But Kaimowitz declined to comment on whether he believes AMSC is paying a good price for Ardis, which he projects will have revenue of about $ 38 million in 1997.	VERB
The deal's impact on AMSC's earnings is unclear, he said.	VERB
AMSC has lost money consistently in recent quarters, reporting losses of $ 80.2 million in the first three quarters of 1997, on revenue of $ 30.3 million.	PREV
AMSC stock closed yesterday at $ 7 a share, up 6 1/4 cents, on the Nasdaq Stock Market.	CONS
Motorola's stock also was up 6 1/4 cents a share to close at $ 57.18 3/4 on the New York Stock Exchange.	CONS
Yesterday's announcement solidifies what had already been a close working relationship between the two companies, Parsons said.	VERB
He said the companies had relied on each other's technology when users moved out of their normal coverage area.	VERB
From a consumer standpoint, nothing would change in the new arrangement, Parsons said.	VERB
No new equipment would be needed.	VERB
While he said the acquisition would allow AMSC to reduce costs, he expects no decrease in the prices of products.	VERB
He said it is premature to say what management or branding changes would be made.	VERB
Ardis's land-based division would continue working at the company's Lincolnshire, Ill., headquarters, he said, with its satellite services based in Reston; there are no plans for any layoffs.	VERB
Albert Lopez, director of communications for Motorola's messaging information and media sector, said the acquisition would enable the company to focus on developing consumer products, including cellular phones and pagers.	VERB
These are the things Motorola is known for," he said.	VERB
The acquisition combines two companies with complementary technologies that now serve disparate business sectors.	EVAL
Under terms of the deal, Motorola would become AMSC's second-largest stockholder, with close to 20 percent of the company, said Gary Parsons, president and chief executive of AMSC.	VERB

Compaq Computer Corp., the world's largest maker of personal computers, said yesterday that it will buy Digital Equipment Corp. for $ 9.6 billion in the computer industry's largest-ever merger.	LEAD
The deal would create the second-largest computer company in the world, one that even giant International Business Machines Corp. will have to watch with care.	LEAD
It's been our stated goal to become one of the top three computer companies in the world," Compaq chief executive Eckhard Pfeiffer said at a news conference in New York.	VERB
The combined company will become the industry's newest giant, with combined annual revenue of $ 37 billion based on last year's sales.	MAIN
It will be second only to IBM, which had $ 78.5 billion in revenue last year.	MAIN
Hewlett-Packard Co. ranks third, with 1997 revenue of $ 35.5 billion from computer products and services.	MAIN
At the heart of the Digital deal, analysts say, is Compaq's keen interest in moving beyond its preeminence in personal computers to build a strong presence in the lucrative corporate marketplace.	VERB
To do that, Compaq needs a corps of experts who can advise companies on how to use the latest technology, including the sophisticated "server" computers that Compaq also makes.	VERB
The services [division] is the jewel they're trying to pull out of Digital," said Frank Gens, a senior vice president at International Data Corp., a market research group in Framingham, Mass.	VERB
Compaq already is the third leg in one of the technology world's most powerful alliances, a partnership that began with Microsoft Corp., maker of the dominant personal computer operating system, and Intel Corp., whose chips run most of the world's PCs.	CIRC
Microsoft, Intel and Compaq have fueled the explosive growth of the personal computer industry, putting PCs in the hands of millions of consumers and businesses.	PREV
Compaq captured nearly 30 percent of the growth in PC sales last and shipped nearly 10 million personal computers, according to Dataquest Inc., an industry research firm.	PREV
But Compaq, Intel and Microsoft have set their sights on the more profitable -- and more demanding -- market of serving large companies, and they are tailoring their future software, chips and computers for that market.	EVAL
Microsoft is pushing its Windows NT operating system software, and Intel is developing its "IA-64" family of chips, starting with one it calls "Merced.	EVAL
Compaq has used Microsoft software and, for the most part, Intel chips to achieve its top ranking in PC sales.	HIST
But two years ago, company managers reorganized the firm to focus on corporate customers, said John Rose, a senior vice president at Compaq.	HIST
Last year, Compaq spent $ 3 billion to buy Tandem Computers, a longtime maker of sophisticated "fault-tolerant" systems -- computers designed to be relatively crash-proof in critical applications.	HIST
By 2000, Rose said, Compaq managers want the company to pull in $ 50 billion in revenue, half of it by selling high-end computers such as servers and services to corporations, compared with about 37 percent of its revenue from such customers before the Digital deal was announced.	VERB
Analysts said the deal was not surprising.	VERB
Compaq has long considered buying at least a portion of Digital, which, in turn, has struggled over the past few years to improve its bottom line.	VERB
In acquiring Digital, Compaq is taking on a complex organization and a markedly different corporate culture, industry experts point out.	VERB
The deal, unanimously approved yesterday by both companies' boards, also must pass muster with U.S. antitrust regulators and the shareholders of both firms.	VERB
Yet if the merger is a success, the company that emerges will be an even stronger partner in the Microsoft-Intel alliance.	EXPE
Both Compaq and Digital were committed to supporting Windows NT before this deal, pointed out Nathan Myhrvold, Microsoft's chief scientist.	EXPE
"DEC has organization and enterprise skills and Compaq has a heritage in the mass production world," he said.	VERB
NT is a product that straddles those two areas," he added, and the new firm will be well suited to propel it forward.	VERB
But corporate customers want more from their suppliers than the latest hardware and software; they want a corps of trained specialists who can make all the pieces work, and even after acquiring Tandem, Compaq was "nowhere near the player that DEC is" in that area, said Gens of IDC.	VERB
With the purchase of Digital, Compaq gains a company that not only is known for its server computers, but one that over the years has created a services division for large customers that ranks among the top 10 in the world, Gens said.	VERB
Digital has a group of about 25,000 engineers and support staff around the world, compared with 8,000 for Compaq.	VERB
Digital's services division "has been a real moneymaker," said Tony Scott of A.T. Carney, an executive search organization, in Redwood Shores,	PREV
Calif. Last quarter, for instance, services amounted to $ 1.5 billion of Digital's $ 3.3 billion in revenue.	PREV
(For all of 1997, Digital had $ 13 billion in revenue, and $ 140.8 million in profit.)	PREV
But Compaq inherits more than a strong services group.	EVAL
Digital's researchers are known for creating such jewels as AltaVista, a powerful "engine" for searching the World Wide Web; the Alpha microprocessor, which routinely outstrips Intel's family of Pentium processors; and a promising chip called StrongARM, designed to be the brains of handheld electronic devices and possibly even the TV set-top boxes that promise to meld TVs and computers.	EVAL
Although the technologies are promising, analysts said, many of those efforts have seemed to muddy Digital's core business and sap its profitability.	VERB
Recently, Digital agreed to sell its chip businesses to Intel, although the deal is still awaiting government approval.	VERB
Executives said Compaq, after it buys Digital, will continue to support Alpha.	VERB
Under terms of the deal, which the companies hope to complete in the second quarter, Digital shareholders will receive $ 30 in cash and about 0.945 share of Compaq stock for each share of Digital stock they own.	CONS
Compaq plans to pay $ 4.8 billion in cash and issue 150 million shares of stock to finance the purchase.	CONS
Based on Compaq's closing price of $ 31.75 Friday, the deal values Digital at just more than $ 60 per share, a nearly one-third premium to the company's $ 45.43 3/4 close Friday.	CONS
Yesterday, Digital stock jumped $ 10, to $ 55.43 3/4, while Compaq fell $ 2.75, to $ 29, both in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.	CONS
Compaq Computer Corp., the world's largest maker of personal computers, said yesterday that it will buy Digital Equipment Corp. for $ 9.6 billion in the computer industry's largest-ever merger.	LEAD
The deal would create the second-largest computer company in the world, one that even giant International Business Machines Corp. will have to watch with care.	LEAD
It's been our stated goal to become one of the top three computer companies in the world," Compaq chief executive Eckhard Pfeiffer said at a news conference in New York.	VERB
The combined company will become the industry's newest giant, with combined annual revenue of $ 37 billion based on last year's sales.	CONS
It will be second only to IBM, which had $ 78.5 billion in revenue last year.	CONS
Hewlett-Packard Co. ranks third, with 1997 revenue of $ 35.5 billion from computer products and services.	CONS
At the heart of the Digital deal, analysts say, is Compaq's keen interest in moving beyond its preeminence in personal computers to build a strong presence in the lucrative corporate marketplace.	CIRC
To do that, Compaq needs a corps of experts who can advise companies on how to use the latest technology, including the sophisticated "server" computers that Compaq also makes.	CIRC
The services [division] is the jewel they're trying to pull out of Digital," said Frank Gens, a senior vice president at International Data Corp., a market research group in Framingham, Mass.	VERB
Compaq already is the third leg in one of the technology world's most powerful alliances, a partnership that began with Microsoft Corp., maker of the dominant personal computer operating system, and Intel Corp., whose chips run most of the world's PCs.	CIRC
Microsoft, Intel and Compaq have fueled the explosive growth of the personal computer industry, putting PCs in the hands of millions of consumers and businesses.	PREV
Compaq captured nearly 30 percent of the growth in PC sales last and shipped nearly 10 million personal computers, according to Dataquest Inc., an industry research firm.	PREV
But Compaq, Intel and Microsoft have set their sights on the more profitable -- and more demanding -- market of serving large companies, and they are tailoring their future software, chips and computers for that market.	EVAL
Microsoft is pushing its Windows NT operating system software, and Intel is developing its "IA-64" family of chips, starting with one it calls "Merced.	EVAL
Compaq has used Microsoft software and, for the most part, Intel chips to achieve its top ranking in PC sales.	HIST
But two years ago, company managers reorganized the firm to focus on corporate customers, said John Rose, a senior vice president at Compaq.	HIST
Last year, Compaq spent $ 3 billion to buy Tandem Computers, a longtime maker of sophisticated "fault-tolerant" systems -- computers designed to be relatively crash-proof in critical applications.	HIST
By 2000, Rose said, Compaq managers want the company to pull in $ 50 billion in revenue, half of it by selling high-end computers such as servers and services to corporations, compared with about 37 percent of its revenue from such customers before the Digital deal was announced.	VERB
Analysts said the deal was not surprising.	VERB
Compaq has long considered buying at least a portion of Digital, which, in turn, has struggled over the past few years to improve its bottom line.	VERB
In acquiring Digital, Compaq is taking on a complex organization and a markedly different corporate culture, industry experts point out.	CONS
The deal, unanimously approved yesterday by both companies' boards, also must pass muster with U.S. antitrust regulators and the shareholders of both firms.	CONS
Yet if the merger is a success, the company that emerges will be an even stronger partner in the Microsoft-Intel alliance.	EXPE
Both Compaq and Digital were committed to supporting Windows NT before this deal, pointed out Nathan Myhrvold, Microsoft's chief scientist.	EXPE
"DEC has organization and enterprise skills and Compaq has a heritage in the mass production world," he said.	VERB
NT is a product that straddles those two areas," he added, and the new firm will be well suited to propel it forward.	VERB
But corporate customers want more from their suppliers than the latest hardware and software; they want a corps of trained specialists who can make all the pieces work, and even after acquiring Tandem, Compaq was "nowhere near the player that DEC is" in that area, said Gens of IDC.	VERB
With the purchase of Digital, Compaq gains a company that not only is known for its server computers, but one that over the years has created a services division for large customers that ranks among the top 10 in the world, Gens said.	VERB
Digital has a group of about 25,000 engineers and support staff around the world, compared with 8,000 for Compaq.	VERB
Digital's services division "has been a real moneymaker," said Tony Scott of A.T. Carney, an executive search organization, in Redwood Shores,	VERB
Calif. Last quarter, for instance, services amounted to $ 1.5 billion of Digital's $ 3.3 billion in revenue.	VERB
(For all of 1997, Digital had $ 13 billion in revenue, and $ 140.8 million in profit.)	VERB
But Compaq inherits more than a strong services group.	EVAL
Digital's researchers are known for creating such jewels as AltaVista, a powerful "engine" for searching the World Wide Web; the Alpha microprocessor, which routinely outstrips Intel's family of Pentium processors; and a promising chip called StrongARM, designed to be the brains of handheld electronic devices and possibly even the TV set-top boxes that promise to meld TVs and computers.	EVAL
Although the technologies are promising, analysts said, many of those efforts have seemed to muddy Digital's core business and sap its profitability.	VERB
Recently, Digital agreed to sell its chip businesses to Intel, although the deal is still awaiting government approval.	VERB
Executives said Compaq, after it buys Digital, will continue to support Alpha.	VERB
Under terms of the deal, which the companies hope to complete in the second quarter, Digital shareholders will receive $ 30 in cash and about 0.945 share of Compaq stock for each share of Digital stock they own.	CONS
Compaq plans to pay $ 4.8 billion in cash and issue 150 million shares of stock to finance the purchase.	CONS
Based on Compaq's closing price of $ 31.75 Friday, the deal values Digital at just more than $ 60 per share, a nearly one-third premium to the company's $ 45.43 3/4 close Friday.	CONS
Yesterday, Digital stock jumped $ 10, to $ 55.43 3/4, while Compaq fell $ 2.75, to $ 29, both in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.	CONS

Britain and Ireland today suspended Sinn Fein, the Irish Republican Army's political ally, from the Northern Ireland peace talks, prompting concern that violence could erupt again in the British province.	LEAD
British and Irish officials went to Belfast to inform Sinn Fein leaders that two recent slayings police blamed on the IRA disqualify the party from a place at the negotiating table.	MAIN
But the officials made clear they were acting reluctantly and wanted Sinn Fein back.	MAIN
They specified that the suspension will last until March 9 but warned that Sinn Fein could be expelled permanently if the IRA kills again.	CONS
They also agreed to hold back-door communications with Sinn Fein so that it can be heard in the negotiations during the suspension.	CONS
[Late Friday, a car bomb exploded near a police station in Moira, 20 miles south of Belfast, causing widespread damage and minor injuries to about a dozen people, police and hospital personnel said, according to news services.	CIRC
There was no initial claim of responsibility.]	CIRC
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams called the suspension "disgraceful.	VERB
The process by which this decision was reached lacks any notion of natural justice or fairness," Adams said.	VERB
But he urged supporters to show restraint.	VERB
I want to appeal to everyone to stay calm, to channel their anger and their frustration, if they wish to, into calm and disciplined protest," he said.	VERB
Many people in Northern Ireland fear that any violent street demonstrations or new attacks by the IRA in response to the suspension will effectively end the talks, which aim to end three decades of violence between the province's Protestant majority and Catholic minority.	VERB
Reacting to the decision, several hundred people chanted "No justice, no peace!" outside police stations in Catholic west Belfast and in Londonderry, Northern Ireland's second-largest city, the Associated Press reported.	VERB
In north Belfast, protesters scuffled with police and soldiers guarding Protestant homes.	VERB
Bigger weekend protests are scheduled in both cities.	VERB
British and Irish officials said they had no choice but to suspend Sinn Fein once police in Northern Ireland linked the IRA to two killings there last week.	VERB
Under the rules of the discussions, political parties may take part only if their paramilitary allies respect a cease-fire.	VERB
The principles [of nonviolence] have been demonstrably dishonored," British Secretary of State for Northern Ireland Marjorie Mowlam said today in Belfast.	VERB
Therefore Sinn Fein is no longer entitled to take part in these talks. . . .	VERB
We cannot have the integrity of the process violated.	VERB
Sinn Fein filed suit Wednesday in Dublin to try to block the suspension, contending it is separate from the IRA and should not be held accountable for IRA actions.	CIRC
Sinn Fein withdrew its court action following today's expulsion.	CIRC
Britain and Ireland ejected Sinn Fein reluctantly, since any hope for lasting peace hinges on the support of the IRA, the province's most powerful Catholic paramilitary group.	CIRC
I look forward to their return on March 9," said Irish Foreign Minister David Andrews, who with Mowlam met with Adams and other Sinn Fein leaders in Belfast today.	VERB
Meanwhile, reports of another apparently sectarian slaying in Northern Ireland underlined how often the cease-fire is violated and how difficult it is to determine who is responsible.	CIRC
On Wednesday, a Catholic man was found shot dead in a deserted farmhouse, his arms tied behind his back.	CIRC
A Protestant paramilitary group that operates in the area, the Loyalist Volunteer Force, denied responsibility.	CIRC
Sinn Fein's suspension was intended in part to satisfy Protestant leaders.	VERB
But representatives of Protestant parties contended today that Sinn Fein received special treatment even as it was thrown out.	VERB
They noted that a small Protestant group, the Ulster Democratic Party, was given no return date when it was ejected last month after its paramilitary ally admitted killing three Catholics.	VERB
Britain and Ireland announced today the Ulster Democratic Party will be allowed to return to the talks on Monday.	VERB

JAKARTA, Indonesia,	LEAD
Feb. 27- James Riady, the Indonesian businessman who befriended President Clinton in Arkansas and became a major contributor to the Democratic Party, today denied allegations in a recent draft report by a Senate committee's Republican majority that he and his company, the Lippo Group, had ties to a Chinese government intelligence agency.	LEAD
In a written statement provided at the end of an interview, Riady also sought to clarify his relationship with former Democratic Party fund-raiser John Huang.	VERB
The Senate Governmental Affairs Committee spent almost a year investigating many aspects of alleged campaign finance abuses in the 1996 presidential and congressional elections, including a "plan" by China to influence U.S. elections.	VERB
I did not receive any information from John that I was told was classified, or that I believed to be classified," Riady said in the statement.	VERB
I did not ask John to give me any American classified intelligence, and to the best of my knowledge he did not provide me with any such information.	VERB
Riady, who is deputy chairman of the Lippo Group, one of Indonesia's largest and most respected conglomerates, also said Huang "did not ask me to channel any money to America for the purpose of gaining influence for any foreign country in an American election, and I did not do so.	VERB
Huang once ran Lippo's U.S. operations.	HIST
He served in the Commerce Department beginning in July 1994.	HIST
After a Sept. 13, 1995, meeting between Riady and Clinton in the Oval Office, Huang moved over to the Democratic National Committee in December that year, where he raised money from Asian American donors.	HIST
The Senate committee said it had "a single piece of unverified information" that Huang may have a direct financial relationship with the Chinese government.	HIST
The draft report describes the alleged relationship between the Riady family and Chinese intelligence as "based on business interests," with the Riadys obtaining Chinese assistance for international business opportunities "in exchange for large sums of money and other help.	HIST
Riady spoke in his 21-story office building on the outskirts of Jakarta.	CIRC
The ground rules of the interview prohibited questions on American politics or the family's alleged links to Chinese intelligence, such as why the family contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars to Clinton and the Democrats, and why Huang was in such frequent contact with his former employers at Lippo when he was at the Commerce Department.	CIRC
The timing of his statement is important.	EVAL
Riady, an ethnic Chinese, is trying to project a stable image for himself and his company at a time of economic and social upheaval in Indonesia.	EVAL
Riady also would like to improve his image in the United States, a country he says he loved and admired.	VERB
But in the limelight he attracted in his 15 to 20 visits to the White House, including three to the Oval Office where he discussed policy matters with Clinton, he got a taste of American culture that he didn't bargain for, he says.	VERB
American values, I think I must say, have deteriorated," he said.	VERB
I think what you see in the television forms the image of what the truth is.	VERB
Actually what it has become is, the perception is more important than the truth.	VERB
So far the Senate panel's allegations appear to have left the reputation of Riady and his father, Mochtar, as good businessmen intact in Indonesia.	EVAL
Indeed, in a country like Indonesia, giving money to influential friends -- in this case President Clinton -- simply makes good business sense.	EVAL
From his office, where several framed pictures of himself with Clinton decorate a bookshelf and desk, Riady portrayed the Lippo Group as one of Indonesia's most durable companies, with an American-inspired dream of developing glittering shopping malls and residential communities.	EVAL
We like to focus more on the vision that we have, and our eyes are still focused on that vision," he said.	VERB
We're not quite like America yet, but obviously that becomes our target of what we'd like to do.	VERB
It includes expanding business in China and elsewhere.	VERB
Lippo sources said business in China currently represents 5 percent of the company's total assets, but company executives predict that in two or three decades that figure could grow to 30 percent.	VERB
We have always felt that China presents extremely good long-term prospects," Riady said.	VERB
But that's what it is -- prospects.	VERB
In the short term there are lots of risks, volatility, as the government tries to shift and structure its economy from a basically state economy to more and more open economy and private enterprise," he said.	VERB
During that shift there's a lot of uncertainties and a lot of volatility.	VERB
So what we try to do is try to look in the long term, but in the short term try to limit our investments to a manageable level.	VERB
Despite his dreams, Riady still has to deal with the short term, namely, wrestling with Indonesia's economic crisis.	EVAL
A $ 43 billion bailout by the International Monetary Fund is supposed to help get the sprawling archipelago back on its feet, but the government has been slow to implement reforms.	PREV
An acute money problem -- the local currency, the rupiah, has lost more than two-thirds of its value in the past eight months -- has many companies on the verge of bankruptcy because they can't pay their debts.	PREV
In this regard, Lippo has done fairly well.	VERB
Riady said that in the last two years the company has incurred no debt at all.	VERB
But there are cracks in the Lippo veneer.	VERB
Riady acknowledged that Lippo-owned banks had lost 10 percent of their deposits, and that the company's retail business is down 20 percent to 30 percent.	VERB
Despite the overall economic problems plaguing Indonesia, and the resulting crisis of confidence, Riady still promotes the nation as "the best place for investments.	VERB
And he says it is not true that personal connections determine success or failure here.	VERB
I think in any country connections are important because at the end of the day you want to know the policy directions of the government," he said.	VERB
So relationships and connections are important and are helpful, but I think it is unwise to base your business on those connections.	VERB
James Riady, the Indonesian businessman who befriended President Clinton in Arkansas and became a major contributor to the Democratic Party, today denied allegations in a recent draft report by a Senate committee's Republican majority that he and his company, the Lippo Group, had ties to a Chinese government intelligence agency.	LEAD
In a written statement provided at the end of an interview, Riady also sought to clarify his relationship with former Democratic Party fund-raiser John Huang.	MAIN
The Senate Governmental Affairs Committee spent almost a year investigating many aspects of alleged campaign finance abuses in the 1996 presidential and congressional elections, including a "plan" by China to influence U.S. elections.	MAIN
I did not receive any information from John that I was told was classified, or that I believed to be classified," Riady said in the statement.	MAIN
I did not ask John to give me any American classified intelligence, and to the best of my knowledge he did not provide me with any such information.	MAIN
Riady, who is deputy chairman of the Lippo Group, one of Indonesia's largest and most respected conglomerates, also said Huang "did not ask me to channel any money to America for the purpose of gaining influence for any foreign country in an American election, and I did not do so.	MAIN
Huang once ran Lippo's U.S. operations.	HIST
He served in the Commerce Department beginning in July 1994.	HIST
After a Sept. 13, 1995, meeting between Riady and Clinton in the Oval Office, Huang moved over to the Democratic National Committee in December that year, where he raised money from Asian American donors.	HIST
The Senate committee said it had "a single piece of unverified information" that Huang may have a direct financial relationship with the Chinese government.	HIST
The draft report describes the alleged relationship between the Riady family and Chinese intelligence as "based on business interests," with the Riadys obtaining Chinese assistance for international business opportunities "in exchange for large sums of money and other help.	HIST
Riady spoke in his 21-story office building on the outskirts of Jakarta.	CIRC
The ground rules of the interview prohibited questions on American politics or the family's alleged links to Chinese intelligence, such as why the family contributed hundreds of thousands of dollars to Clinton and the Democrats, and why Huang was in such frequent contact with his former employers at Lippo when he was at the Commerce Department.	CIRC
The timing of his statement is important.	EVAL
Riady, an ethnic Chinese, is trying to project a stable image for himself and his company at a time of economic and social upheaval in Indonesia.	EVAL
Riady also would like to improve his image in the United States, a country he says he loved and admired.	VERB
But in the limelight he attracted in his 15 to 20 visits to the White House, including three to the Oval Office where he discussed policy matters with Clinton, he got a taste of American culture that he didn't bargain for, he says.	VERB
American values, I think I must say, have deteriorated," he said.	VERB
I think what you see in the television forms the image of what the truth is.	VERB
Actually what it has become is, the perception is more important than the truth.	VERB
So far the Senate panel's allegations appear to have left the reputation of Riady and his father, Mochtar, as good businessmen intact in Indonesia.	EVAL
Indeed, in a country like Indonesia, giving money to influential friends -- in this case President Clinton -- simply makes good business sense.	EVAL
From his office, where several framed pictures of himself with Clinton decorate a bookshelf and desk, Riady portrayed the Lippo Group as one of Indonesia's most durable companies, with an American-inspired dream of developing glittering shopping malls and residential communities.	EVAL
We like to focus more on the vision that we have, and our eyes are still focused on that vision," he said.	VERB
We're not quite like America yet, but obviously that becomes our target of what we'd like to do.	VERB
It includes expanding business in China and elsewhere.	VERB
Lippo sources said business in China currently represents 5 percent of the company's total assets, but company executives predict that in two or three decades that figure could grow to 30 percent.	VERB
We have always felt that China presents extremely good long-term prospects," Riady said.	VERB
But that's what it is -- prospects.	VERB
In the short term there are lots of risks, volatility, as the government tries to shift and structure its economy from a basically state economy to more and more open economy and private enterprise," he said.	VERB
During that shift there's a lot of uncertainties and a lot of volatility.	VERB
So what we try to do is try to look in the long term, but in the short term try to limit our investments to a manageable level.	VERB
Despite his dreams, Riady still has to deal with the short term, namely, wrestling with Indonesia's economic crisis.	EVAL
A $ 43 billion bailout by the International Monetary Fund is supposed to help get the sprawling archipelago back on its feet, but the government has been slow to implement reforms.	CIRC
An acute money problem -- the local currency, the rupiah, has lost more than two-thirds of its value in the past eight months -- has many companies on the verge of bankruptcy because they can't pay their debts.	CIRC
In this regard, Lippo has done fairly well.	VERB
Riady said that in the last two years the company has incurred no debt at all.	VERB
But there are cracks in the Lippo veneer.	VERB
Riady acknowledged that Lippo-owned banks had lost 10 percent of their deposits, and that the company's retail business is down 20 percent to 30 percent.	VERB
Despite the overall economic problems plaguing Indonesia, and the resulting crisis of confidence, Riady still promotes the nation as "the best place for investments.	VERB
And he says it is not true that personal connections determine success or failure here.	VERB
I think in any country connections are important because at the end of the day you want to know the policy directions of the government," he said.	VERB
So relationships and connections are important and are helpful, but I think it is unwise to base your business on those connections.	VERB

UNITED NATIONS,	LEAD
Feb. 18- Having won backing for a diplomatic mission from the five permanent members of the Security Council, U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said today that his trip to Baghdad was the last chance to head off a war.	LEAD
Annan intends to leave Thursday carrying a compromise by the Security Council intended to allow Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to back down while saving face.	MAIN
The compromise would have diplomats tag along with U.N. weapons inspectors to the eight presidential palaces that the Iraqi government has declared off-limits.	MAIN
Diplomats here said that Iraq was aware of the proposed face-saving compromise on Tuesday when it formally welcomed Annan's announced visit.	VERB
But they said there is no indication at this point whether it might be an acceptable cover for Saddam Hussein, allowing him to backtrack on months of provocations that have led the United States to prepare a massive air attack on Iraq.	VERB
While acknowledging that "this obviously is not going to be an easy mission," Annan said today that he has been in frequent touch with the Iraqi government and is "encouraged by the message coming from Baghdad that they are prepared to engage me constructively to find a solution.	VERB
Annan, a Ghanaian facing by far the greatest diplomatic challenge of his 13 months as secretary general, is due in Baghdad on Friday after a stop in Paris.	MAIN
He said he will stay in Iraq for no more than two days before returning to brief the Security Council.	MAIN
Under the proposal, said one senior U.N. diplomat, diplomatic observers "can stand around" and provide the Iraqi government with a "fig leaf" of international respect for its sovereignty as U.N. inspectors do their job with no time limits imposed.	VERB
Baghdad's most recent offer had been to open the closed sites to inspection for 60 days -- an offer the United States rejected.	VERB
American support for Annan's mission was couched today in language that ranged from carefully supportive to bluntly pessimistic.	VERB
White House spokesman Michael McCurry said, "There's been no indication from the government of Iraq that would lead anyone to be optimistic.	VERB
Bill Richardson, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, was only slightly more encouraging.	VERB
He wished Annan "Godspeed," described him as "very skilled" and said he had the "full support" of President Clinton.	VERB
But Richardson insisted that nothing Annan does -- short of coaxing Saddam Hussein into giving U.N. weapons inspectors "unconditional, unfettered" access to suspected weapons sites -- will defuse the crisis.	VERB
If Iraq does not comply, there are going to be some very, very serious consequences," Richardson warned.	VERB
The United Nations has been down this foggy road before with Saddam Hussein.	HIST
In 1991, then-Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar made an abortive trip to Baghdad trying to head off the Gulf War.	HIST
Saddam Hussein kept him waiting an entire day before seeing the U.N. leader and then refused to pull his troops out of Kuwait.	HIST
Annan suggested today that he has given considerable thought to his predecessor's humiliation.	VERB
He said that in recent days he has been on the phone to Paris to speak with Perez de Cuellar.	VERB
I know about his experience and probably will see him on my way through Paris," Annan said.	VERB
Asked about Annan's mission, Perez de Cuellar told reporters that he is hoping the secretary general will produce a "miracle.	VERB
A senior U.N. diplomat said Annan understands the trip to Baghdad puts him in a vulnerable position that may damage the image of the United Nations, but added that the secretary general believes he has no choice but to go.	VERB
It's not going to be good for the United Nations to fail, but it wouldn't be good for the United Nations to do nothing," said the diplomat.	VERB
Besides being in the dark about whether Saddam Hussein is prepared to back down, the diplomat said Annan also is unclear about whether the U.S. government regards his Baghdad trip as a meaningless exercise.	VERB
It is hard to know about the Americans.	VERB
They might have already decided to bomb," said the diplomat.	VERB
Having won backing for a diplomatic mission from the five permanent members of the Security Council, U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan said today that his trip to Baghdad was the last chance to head off a war.	LEAD
Annan intends to leave Thursday carrying a compromise by the Security Council intended to allow Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to back down while saving face.	MAIN
The compromise would have diplomats tag along with U.N. weapons inspectors to the eight presidential palaces that the Iraqi government has declared off-limits.	MAIN
Diplomats here said that Iraq was aware of the proposed face-saving compromise on Tuesday when it formally welcomed Annan's announced visit.	VERB
But they said there is no indication at this point whether it might be an acceptable cover for Saddam Hussein, allowing him to backtrack on months of provocations that have led the United States to prepare a massive air attack on Iraq.	VERB
While acknowledging that "this obviously is not going to be an easy mission," Annan said today that he has been in frequent touch with the Iraqi government and is "encouraged by the message coming from Baghdad that they are prepared to engage me constructively to find a solution.	VERB
Annan, a Ghanaian facing by far the greatest diplomatic challenge of his 13 months as secretary general, is due in Baghdad on Friday after a stop in Paris.	MAIN
He said he will stay in Iraq for no more than two days before returning to brief the Security Council.	MAIN
Under the proposal, said one senior U.N. diplomat, diplomatic observers "can stand around" and provide the Iraqi government with a "fig leaf" of international respect for its sovereignty as U.N. inspectors do their job with no time limits imposed.	VERB
Baghdad's most recent offer had been to open the closed sites to inspection for 60 days -- an offer the United States rejected.	VERB
American support for Annan's mission was couched today in language that ranged from carefully supportive to bluntly pessimistic.	VERB
White House spokesman Michael McCurry said, "There's been no indication from the government of Iraq that would lead anyone to be optimistic.	VERB
Bill Richardson, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, was only slightly more encouraging.	VERB
He wished Annan "Godspeed," described him as "very skilled" and said he had the "full support" of President Clinton.	VERB
But Richardson insisted that nothing Annan does -- short of coaxing Saddam Hussein into giving U.N. weapons inspectors "unconditional, unfettered" access to suspected weapons sites -- will defuse the crisis.	VERB
If Iraq does not comply, there are going to be some very, very serious consequences," Richardson warned.	VERB
The United Nations has been down this foggy road before with Saddam Hussein.	HIST
In 1991, then-Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar made an abortive trip to Baghdad trying to head off the Gulf War.	HIST
Saddam Hussein kept him waiting an entire day before seeing the U.N. leader and then refused to pull his troops out of Kuwait.	HIST
Annan suggested today that he has given considerable thought to his predecessor's humiliation.	VERB
He said that in recent days he has been on the phone to Paris to speak with Perez de Cuellar.	VERB
I know about his experience and probably will see him on my way through Paris," Annan said.	VERB
Asked about Annan's mission, Perez de Cuellar told reporters that he is hoping the secretary general will produce a "miracle.	VERB
A senior U.N. diplomat said Annan understands the trip to Baghdad puts him in a vulnerable position that may damage the image of the United Nations, but added that the secretary general believes he has no choice but to go.	VERB
It's not going to be good for the United Nations to fail, but it wouldn't be good for the United Nations to do nothing," said the diplomat.	VERB
Besides being in the dark about whether Saddam Hussein is prepared to back down, the diplomat said Annan also is unclear about whether the U.S. government regards his Baghdad trip as a meaningless exercise.	VERB
It is hard to know about the Americans.	VERB
They might have already decided to bomb," said the diplomat.	VERB

Calls for a diplomatic solution to the Iraq crisis bounded around the Middle East today as leaders anticipated a still unscheduled mission to Baghdad by U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan.	LEAD
A visit by the top U.N. diplomat has come to be regarded throughout the region as the world body's last chance to avert airstrikes on Iraq by U.S. and British bombers massed in the Persian Gulf region.	EVAL
No one on any side of the issue seems to oppose the visit, although opinions diverge on just what it would take to defuse the crisis.	EVAL
Washington and London are demanding unimpeded access by U.N arms inspectors to suspected storage and production sites for chemical and biological weapons in Iraq.	CIRC
The Iraqi leadership wants to alter the makeup of the inspection teams and limit their access.	CIRC
In Baghdad, the government of President Saddam Hussein hosted a three-member U.N. map-making team that arrived to survey eight presidential complexes that arms inspectors think may be storage or production sites for chemical and biological weapons.	CIRC
The Iraqis seemed eager to display cooperation but also to indicate that the survey was a limited exercise, designed to lay the groundwork for a visit by Annan.	CIRC
Iraqi helicopters ferried the U.N. team over the sites, and officials permitted ground visits for mapping purposes, Iraqi officials said.	VERB
The exercise, said Iraqi Foreign Minister Mohammed Saeed Sahhaf, is meant to "prepare the information about the presidential sites .	VERB
. how many acres, are they surrounded by fences, to prepare the maps.	VERB
So when the secretary general arrives, he will find precise information.	VERB
That's all.	VERB
At the same time, Iraq insisted that inspections are unnecessary, saying that its biological and chemical weapons, as well as missiles to deliver them, have long been eliminated.	VERB
The facts are that Iraq declared those weapons [to the United Nations], and Iraq destroyed them," said Gen. Amir Saadi, an Iraqi presidential adviser.	VERB
Meanwhile, each passing day brings new evidence that the alliance that staunchly supported the U.S.-led bombing of Iraq in 1991 and the subsequent freeing of Kuwait from Iraqi occupation has disintegrated.	EVAL
Most of the Middle East partners in the Persian Gulf War are now pressing for a peaceful outcome of the present crisis.	EVAL
The defense minister of the United Arab Emirates, Mohammed bin Rashid Maktum, said, "We do not agree to attack Iraq" because of possible civilian casualties.	VERB
Saudi Arabia's defense minister, Prince Sultan, reiterated his government's refusal to let American planes use Saudi bases to launch air raids.	VERB
Here, Jordanian officials repeatedly expressed hope that bombing will not be necessary.	CIRC
Jordan has a complex relationship with Iraq, since it depends on its ostracized neighbor for oil supplies.	CIRC
Today, the Jordanians signed a $ 225 million barter deal with Iraq under which it will trade soap, cooking oil and other household goods for fuel.	CIRC
Jordan is exempt from U.N. prohibitions on trade with Iraq.	CIRC
The arid kingdom has been cut off from its main supplier, Saudi Arabia, since the Gulf War because King Hussein did not wholeheartedly condemn Iraq's invasion of Kuwait.	CIRC
Iraq also offers Jordan more favorable prices than Persian Gulf states that might also be willing to fill its fuel needs.	CIRC

To the cheers of hundreds of employees, Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt vowed yesterday to fight a perjury investigation by an independent counsel and predicted "absolute vindication" for himself and his department.	LEAD
The times are out of sync and so is the system," Babbitt told a sympathetic audience that greeted him with a standing ovation in Interior's main auditorium.	MAIN
He said he has been tempted over the past few months "to say the hell with it. . . .	MAIN
I'm going home," but not anymore.	MAIN
I'm here.	MAIN
I'm going to fight this out to the bitter end and we will be vindicated," he declared.	MAIN
Attorney General Janet Reno asked on Wednesday for appointment of an independent counsel to determine whether Babbitt lied to Congress last fall about his handling of a proposed Indian gambling casino.	CIRC
Tribes opposed to the Hudson, Wis., casino project, which was rejected by Interior in July 1995, contributed more than $ 350,000 to Democrats for the 1996 campaign and launched a full-scale lobbying drive aimed at securing the Interior Department's decision.	CIRC
Reno's petition is awaiting action by a special panel of three federal judges who will name the outside counsel and have the final say on the scope of the investigation.	CIRC
It will be the first to grow out of alleged fund-raising abuses by the Clinton-Gore reelection effort.	CIRC
Babbitt's 15-minute meeting with employees yesterday morning in the 750-seat auditorium was billed as an occasion to "address concerns" they might have about the investigation and lay out his plans for the coming year "to further enhance the administration's environmental and cultural resources agenda.	CIRC
It had some of the trappings of a campaign rally, with workers handed red-lettered "FOBB" -- Friend of Bruce Babbitt -- stickers to put on their lapels.	CIRC
A former Arizona governor and 1988 Democratic presidential contender, Babbitt seemed buoyed by the full-house reception, shaking hands as he came down the aisle and deftly abandoning a podium with scratchy microphones to begin without one at center stage.	CONS
Well, the Burton committee is doing its work," he quipped when the second mike wouldn't work.	CONS
The House Government Reform and Oversight Committee headed by Rep. Dan Burton (R-Ind.)	CIRC
recently concluded two weeks of hearings on the casino controversy with GOP calls for an independent counsel with a broader mandate than Reno recommended.	CIRC
Republicans contend the decision to reject the casino was improperly influenced by the prospect of Democratic campaign contributions from opposing tribes and by pressures from White House and Democratic Party officials.	CIRC
Babbitt has repeatedly denied that allegation, saying the decision was made on recommendations of career Interior officials unaffected by heavy lobbying on both sides of the issue.	CIRC
There is a corrosive, antagonistic, bitter, combative culture which has settled over this town," Babbitt said.	VERB
He said "all the facts" have been made public and all the participants have been "interviewed, deposed, harassed [and] testified" many times, but his critics refuse to be "swayed by the facts.	VERB
And so, Babbitt said, to rousing applause, "here I am.	MAIN
And here I'm going to stay.	MAIN
Babbitt's predicament stems from a conversation he had with Paul Eckstein, an old friend hired as a lobbyist by pro-casino forces, on July 14, 1995, the day the casino application was rejected.	CIRC
Eckstein has testified that when he asked for a delay, Babbitt told him that Harold Ickes, then White House deputy chief of staff, had called and directed him to make a decision that day.	CIRC
Babbitt, when testifying before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee last fall, said he did invoke Ickes's name, but only in an "awkward" effort to end the meeting.	CIRC
He also said that Ickes had not directed him to make the decision that day.	CIRC
Reno said Wednesday that Babbitt may have perjured himself or violated the false statement statute, but in view of his status as a Cabinet member, only an independent counsel could resolve the question.	VERB
Reno also left open the possibility that a wider investigation into allegations of White House influence might be needed.	VERB
Encouraged by what he said were constant expressions of support, "in person, on street corners, in airports, again and again," Babbitt was nonetheless frustrated by the prospect of another inquiry.	CIRC
His lawyer, Lloyd N. Cutler, said in a telephone interview that he anticipates appointment of an independent counsel in a few days, but he noted that it will probably take a month or two before the investigation gets rolling.	CIRC
We are quite confident it will not end up in a proceeding against Bruce," said Cutler, who served briefly as President Clinton's White House counsel.	VERB
I'm afraid we've reached a point where if an independent counsel is even requested, there must be something criminal there.	VERB
That's not true at all.	VERB
On a stoic note, Babbitt told his employees, "Life is not always fair. . . .	MAIN
Sometimes you are in an intersection at the wrong time and the wrong place and you get broadsided through no fault of your own. . . .	MAIN
The important thing, of course, is not to be deterred.	MAIN

Vice Premier Zhu Rongji is pushing a controversial plan to streamline China's bloated government bureaucracy that would take effect just after next month's session of the National People's Congress.	LEAD
Zhu wants to merge several ministries whose duties overlap.	MAIN
Sources suggest 10 or more ministries could be merged with others or abolished.	MAIN
In addition, Zhu is planning to take ministries overseeing industries and convert them into state-owned companies that would be expected to run on a more efficient, economically viable basis.	MAIN
At present, governmental agencies manage a lot of things they shouldn't manage and can't manage well," said Zhang Xiuxue, vice president of the Chinese National School of Administration.	VERB
The expansion of government agencies has hindered economic development.	VERB
But Zhang said the proposed government overhaul "is still very difficult.	VERB
Some people don't want to give up the authority they already have.	VERB
Few people oppose Zhu's idea for streamlining government," said a government official, "except when it comes to their own ministry or department.	VERB
Despite widespread opposition to the plan from people who would lose status, authority or even their jobs, most analysts said Zhu will, for the most part, get his way.	EXPE
The powerful vice premier, who has been the government's chief economic policymaker, is widely expected to become China's new premier during the Party Congress next month.	EXPE
With the rest of Asia in the throes of economic crisis, few Chinese leaders would want to undermine the authority of the person who is considered most responsible for helping China avoid the fate of its neighbors.	EXPE
In what appeared to be an effort to divert some flak away from Zhu, Hu Jintao, another member of the Communist Party's all-powerful seven-man Standing Committee, is leading the working committee nominally in charge of devising the streamlining plan.	CONS
In the past, many government departments were created to serve as power bases for political groups within the ruling Communist Party and as rewards for long-serving party cadres.	CIRC
There are 40 ministries under the State Council, China's cabinet, plus eight institutions, 13 administrations and bureaus, and seven offices.	CIRC
Now, Zhu is proposing to merge bodies that duplicate each other's work.	MAIN
For example, the State Commission for Economic Restructuring might merge with the State Council's Development Research Center.	MAIN
The Ministry of Labor and the Ministry of Personnel could combine.	MAIN
The Ministry of Communications could join the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications.	MAIN
The Ministry of Culture and Ministry of Radio, Film and Television also have been tapped for possible consolidation.	MAIN
The ministries dealing with particular industries are likely to become state-owned corporations.	EXPE
At the top of that list is the Ministry of the Chemical Industry, sources said.	EXPE
Other possibilities are the ministries for railways, the electronics industry, machine-building plants and coal mining.	EXPE
Most of these ministries are swollen with unneeded employees.	CIRC
Conversion to state-owned corporations is no guarantee of improved performance, however.	EVAL
The petroleum ministry was converted to the Chinese National Petroleum Corp. several years ago, but it still is struggling to trim its staff and improve efficiency.	HIST
The corporation employs a staggering 1.51 million people in a wide range of tasks, from running universities to building roads, from drilling wells to making watches, from maintaining pipelines to operating hospitals.	HIST
On Sunday, the corporation said it would launch a new set of reforms, including laying off 250,000 workers.	CONS
It said it also would seek to delegate managerial responsibility to subsidiaries and list certain parts of its business on domestic and international markets.	CONS
The airline and railway industries also have announced massive layoffs.	CONS
The current drive to streamline government is not the first time Zhu has taken on entrenched interests within China's system of governing, but in the past they were mostly at the provincial level.	HIST
As vice premier and president of the People's Bank of China in 1995, Zhu clamped down on the free flow of credit from provincial branches of the bank to projects and state-owned enterprises favored by provincial officials.	HIST
He also overhauled tax revenue sharing to stop the slide in the central government's share of national tax revenues.	HIST

Monica S. Lewinsky spent part of a weekend afternoon in late 1995 alone with President Clinton in the Oval Office, a retired Secret Service officer said yesterday.	LEAD
Clinton testified last month that he does not recall ever being alone with Lewinsky, either while she was employed at the White House or later at the Pentagon, except perhaps on very brief occasions when she dropped off papers in his office, according to sources familiar with Clinton's testimony.	PREV
Former uniformed Secret Service officer Lewis C. Fox said in an interview yesterday that Lewinsky, then a White House intern, spent at least 40 minutes alone with Clinton while Fox was posted outside the Oval Office door.	MAIN
She had arrived with papers for the president, he said, and Clinton instructed Fox to usher her into his office.	MAIN
Clinton was questioned in a closed-door deposition Jan. 17 in the Paula Jones sexual harassment case about whether he had sexual relationships with Lewinsky and other government employees.	CIRC
Fox is the first person to publicly say that he saw the president and Lewinsky alone together.	EVAL
As a result, his statement could be critical to independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr's attempt to determine whether Clinton did have a relationship with Lewinsky and then attempt to conceal it.	EVAL
The White House said it could not confirm or deny Fox's account, but raised questions about it because, an official said, only the president's assistants allow people in to see him, even on weekends.	VERB
Without commenting on the specifics, the story is at odds with the common standard procedure, where White House staff make decisions on access to the Oval Office, not security officers," said a White House official who asked not to be named.	VERB
That would be a real deviation from standard practice.	VERB
Secret Service spokesman Arnette Heintze said his office would not comment on what Fox or other Secret Service personnel may have seen because the Lewinsky matter is the subject of Starr's ongoing investigation.	VERB
Fox, who retired after 27 years with the Secret Service in January 1997, said he is uncertain of the exact date when Lewinsky visited the Oval Office, but said he believes it was a Saturday afternoon in either September, October or November 1995	MAIN
Lewinsky told onetime friend Linda R. Tripp -- who secretly tape-recorded many of their conversations and gave them to investigators -- that she began a sexual relationship with Clinton on Nov. 15, 1995, according to an affidavit Tripp made in the Jones case.	CIRC
Fox said the day he witnessed Lewinsky visit Clinton, he was posted for a one-hour shift outside the Oval Office door.	MAIN
It was around midday, he said, and he had been on duty 15 to 20 minutes when Lewinsky arrived saying she had some paperwork she needed to bring in to the president.	MAIN
Fox said the president's secretary, Betty Currie, was not on duty that day.	MAIN
Fox said he opened the Oval Office door and told Clinton there were papers for him.	MAIN
The president was able to see Lewinsky through the doorway, Fox said, and he told the officer to send her in.	MAIN
Fox said he remained at his post for another 40 minutes or so before he was relieved by another officer.	MAIN
During that time, Lewinsky was behind the closed doors of the Oval Office with Clinton.	MAIN
Fox said he was not aware of what occurred between Clinton and Lewinsky.	MAIN
Officials at the television station said they received a subpoena from Starr for the videotape of the Fox interview and have given it to investigators.	CONS
Fox, who lives in Waynesburg, Pa., was interviewed on WPXI television in Pittsburgh last week and said he saw Lewinsky in the White House.	CIRC
Since that broadcast, he has been contacted by the association that represents Secret Service officers and discouraged from revealing anything more about what he saw.	CONS
Secret Service director Lewis Merletti has met with lawyers from Starr's office on the issue of whether agents and officers who guard the president can be compelled to testify about whether they witnessed encounters between Clinton and Lewinsky.	CONS
The Secret Service is concerned that allowing agents to testify would set a dangerous precedent, engendering mistrust at the White House and ultimately making it more difficult for them to guard the president.	CONS
With that matter unresolved, Starr has refrained from subpoenaing any Secret Service officers, including Fox.	CONS

President Boris Yeltsin strongly warned the United States again today against using force in Iraq, saying Russia "would not allow" a military strike and reiterating that it could lead to "world war.	LEAD
The Foreign Ministry added that Russia would not "resort to extreme measures" in response to President Clinton's order to increase troop levels in the Persian Gulf.	MAIN
We should not allow an armed strike, an American strike, whatever the circumstances," Yeltsin told journalists on the eve of a planned visit to Italy and the Vatican.	MAIN
I told Bill Clinton that we would not allow that."	MAIN
He added, "The most important thing is that we assumed a firm stand: no to the settlement through the use of force.	MAIN
It is impossible; it will mean a world war.	MAIN
For months, Russia has tried to broker a diplomatic resolution of the tension over Iraqi President Saddam Hussein's refusal to allow international inspections of locations where Iraq is believed to harbor weapons of mass destruction.	PREV
But Russia has taken a higher profile in recent days with Yeltsin's blunt, public warnings against a military strike, which contrasted with earlier diplomatic initiatives that skirted any collision with the United States.	CIRC
Yeltsin used the "world war" formulation Wednesday as well, and aides scrambled afterward to say that it was not a threat of military retaliation.	CIRC
Yeltsin's warnings dovetail with criticism of U.S. actions by Russia's nationalists and Communists in parliament.	CIRC
Unlike the confrontation with Iraq in 1990-91, there are few voices here today arguing for cooperation with the United States.	CIRC
The Iraqi news agency INA reported today from Baghdad that the National Assembly had invited a group from Russia's lower house of parliament, the State Duma, to visit some of the disputed sites -- the presidential palaces from which U.N. inspectors have been barred.	CIRC
Yeltsin said today he saw the crisis easing slightly.	VERB
I am an optimist," he added.	VERB
We still cannot say with confidence that everything is all right, that another heightening of tension is out of the question.	VERB
Nevertheless, the recent peak of tension was brought down a little.	VERB
Tension is on the way down.	VERB
Yeltsin claimed Russia's position had attracted support from France and Italy.	VERB
Britain is still somewhat hesitant," he said, but he added that Prime Minister Tony Blair had promised in a telephone call Wednesday not to send more military equipment to the Persian Gulf.	VERB
At the same time, Russia's Foreign Ministry issued a statement saying the threat of U.S. military action still exists.	MAIN
Russia believes that "using force in Iraq or threatening to do so is extremely dangerous under any circumstances," the ministry said.	MAIN
Deputy Foreign Minister Viktor Posuvalyuk remains in Baghdad, where he has been negotiating with Iraq's Deputy Prime Minister, Tariq Aziz.	CIRC
Earlier this week, Russian officials had called his mission a success, saying he had worked out a compromise allowing for the conditional inspection of eight sites.	CIRC
Iraq denied there was any deal.	CIRC
Today, the Interfax news agency quoted a Russian official as saying the process of resolving the crisis was "at the start of the road" and that it was premature to conclude that Iraq's position had changed.	CONS

President Clinton's latest emissary to Indonesia, Walter F. Mondale, leaves for Jakarta today to warn President Suharto against deviating from his pledge of economic reforms -- but also to admonish that Indonesia's problems now go far deeper than economics.	LEAD
The visit by Mondale, the former vice president and ambassador to Japan, comes as concern mounts among officials of the Clinton administration and the International Monetary Fund that Suharto is reverting to old-style favoritism toward cronies and relatives, flouting commitments he made to the IMF in exchange for a $ 43 billion international bailout.	CIRC
If the Indonesian leader is to lure back the capital that has fled his country, these officials argue, he must not only follow the IMF's prescriptions, but take political steps to inspire confidence among investors that Indonesia is headed on a long-term reform path that will minimize the risk of a social explosion.	CIRC
Officials were reluctant to specify what political measures Mondale might recommend, but Washington has urged the authoritarian Suharto for years to welcome a greater diversity of views in his government and rely less on the tight circle that benefits economically from the present system.	CIRC
We want Indonesia to stabilize and grow again," a senior administration official said.	VERB
But we're also quite convinced that in order to do it, they have to recommit, both in word and deed to the IMF program -- and to make sure that they are fostering a political situation that can sustain that program.	VERB
But Mondale will have a tough sell, officials admit.	EVAL
Even if Suharto follows Washington's advice, it is far from clear that Indonesia will recover anytime soon from a crisis that has sent inflation and joblessness soaring, sparking violence by resentful members of Indonesia's Muslim majority against the wealthy ethnic Chinese minority.	EVAL
The 76-year-old Suharto is deeply disillusioned by the failure of the IMF bailout to improve the economic outlook, according to officials who have spoken with him.	CIRC
Following a visit last month by Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers and the IMF's two top officials, Suharto signed an expanded list of promises to dismantle monopolies and end subsidies that favor his children and tycoon friends.	CIRC
His reward from international investors: The nation's currency, the rupiah, plunged to new depths.	CIRC
U.S. and IMF officials contend that Suharto is to blame for undermining investor confidence.	PREV
Cartels that were supposed to be eliminated have been revived under new guises.	PREV
The independent-minded central bank governor was fired, and the government began considering establishing a "currency board" that would rigidly fix the value of the rupiah against the U.S. dollar -- a move Washington dismissed as unworkable.	PREV
Another problem is that many ethnic Chinese, who have funneled their money to Singapore and other havens, are reluctant to bring their wealth back to Indonesia because of the anti-Chinese rioting.	EXPE
So long as the specter of violence continues to loom, their lack of confidence in Indonesia may persist, regardless of what reform measures Suharto embraces.	EXPE

Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said yesterday she will report to President Clinton that none of the six Arab leaders she consulted this week expressed outright opposition to the use of force against Iraq.	MAIN
A senior official traveling with her suggested that some were openly supportive in private.	MAIN
In an eight-nation trip through Europe and the Middle East, Albright spoke to leaders of Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Kuwait, Bahrain and the Palestinian Authority.	MAIN
We talked about various implications of using force but . . .	CIRC
I underline that none of the Arab leaders, specifically, urged me to tell the president not to use force," she said to reporters aboard her aircraft en route back to Washington.	CIRC
Albright has stated throughout the trip that the United States is informing allies of its intentions but is not canvassing for support or asking permission to enforce the disarmament conditions set by the U.N. Security Council at the close of the 1991 Persian Gulf War	VERB
But it is central to the Clinton administration's strategy now to portray itself as the head of a unified "international community," and Albright found time for a news conference every day of the trip in which she recapitulated the support she had received.	EVAL
Earlier, in Egypt, Albright said all six Arab governments agreed on the central components of the American public rationale for military action: that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein created the present crisis by defying U.N. weapons inspectors, that diplomacy is the preferred way to secure his compliance, and that grave consequences would follow from diplomacy's failure.	MAIN
In a Security Council resolution, 'grave consequences' is a very significant statement," said a senior U.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity.	VERB
Grave consequences" means that these leaders are all talking about the possible use of force and blaming that potential outcome on Saddam Hussein, the official said.	VERB
After a week in which Egypt has voiced its opposition openly to any kind of military strike against Baghdad, Cairo's measured support marked a clear softening in tone on the part of a key U.S. ally in the Middle East.	EVAL
In Bahrain, earlier in the day, the government became the third in the Persian Gulf region -- after Saudi Arabia and Kuwait -- to associate itself with American threats of military force in the confrontation over U.N. inspection of Iraqi weapons.	MAIN
U.S. officials said Albright encountered no unexpected opposition to the use of American combat jets based at the Sheik Isa Air Base there if the United States decides to bomb Iraq.	MAIN
Washington's Arab allies are far from enthusiastic at the prospect of U.S. airstrikes against Iraq.	EVAL
Public opinion in Arab countries is deeply sympathetic to the Iraqi people, if not to the regime of Saddam Hussein, and pro-Western Arab states are united in emphasizing the need for a diplomatic solution to the standoff.	EVAL
Adding to diplomatic efforts by France, Russia and Turkey, Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak has spent the last several days telephoning fellow Arab leaders to draft a message that will be carried to Saddam Hussein in Baghdad Wednesday by Arab League Secretary General Esmat Abdel Meguid.	CIRC
Except for Bahrain and Kuwait, none of Washington's Arab allies has given assurances that it would cooperate in military operations against Iraq should diplomatic efforts fail.	CONS
Saudi Arabia is considering a U.S. request to permit American bombers to fly through its airspace en route to Iraq, and American support aircraft, such as refueling planes, to fly from Saudi bases.	CONS
Emerging with Albright from a meeting with Mubarak at Ittihadiya Palace in Cairo this evening, Foreign Minister Amr Moussa used similar language in comments to reporters.	MAIN
It is very important that there would be full compliance" with the U.N. inspections, Moussa said, adding that the two governments agree on the need to exhaust all diplomatic avenues "in order to avoid grave consequences.	MAIN
At the same time, U.S. officials said they have been gratified by expressions of support from such key Arab leaders as Jordan's King Hussein and Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Abdullah.	VERB
After Abdullah and Albright met for six hours Monday, the Saudi government agreed in a statement that the failure of diplomatic efforts would "lead to grave consequences whose responsibility would lie exclusively on the Iraqi regime.	MAIN
Asked whether Egypt was prepared to back military force against Iraq if diplomacy fails, Moussa replied, "I'm not ready to go beyond that for the time being.	VERB
Albright said, "we welcome the fact that others are making an effort to get a diplomatic solution.	VERB
But I also have to say that I am skeptical about it given the kinds of responses that Saddam Hussein has already given to a number of envoys that have gone there.	VERB
She repeated previous warnings that any military strike against Iraq would be "significant.	VERB
[Russia said it was continuing to make progress in its mediation efforts in Baghdad despite an Iraqi denial Monday of concessions reported in Moscow.	CIRC
French envoy Bertrand Dufourcq arrived in the Iraqi capital with a message from French President Jacques Chirac for Saddam Hussein that he planned to deliver on Wednesday.	CIRC
British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, meanwhile, announced plans to visit Saudi Arabia and Kuwait this week to discuss the crisis as Kuwait put its military on higher alert.]	CIRC
In military terms, Egyptian cooperation would make little difference to the United States, which has concentrated most of its firepower on aircraft carriers and land bases in the Persian Gulf region.	EVAL
As the largest and arguably most influential Arab country, however, Egypt can play a crucial role in providing the administration with political cover as it did when it participated in the U.S.-led coalition to drive Iraqi troops from Kuwait in the 1991 Persian Gulf War.	EVAL
The U.S. case for military action was not helped by a recent comment attributed to chief U.N. weapons inspector Richard Butler to the effect that Saddam Hussein has enough biological weapons to "blow away Tel Aviv" -- language he later said was taken out of context.	EVAL
Echoing comments by Mubarak, Egypt's semiofficial Al Ahram newspaper said in a lead editorial today that Butler's comment "confirmed the beliefs of Arab citizens that the goal of the U.N. committee is not to implement the U.N. resolutions but to paralyze Iraq for Israel's benefit.	VERB
But Albright's conversation with Mubarak appears to have softened Egyptian objections, at least for now.	EVAL
Appearing alongside Albright in Bahrain this morning, Foreign Minister Mohammed Bin Mubarak Khalifa repeated several elements of the formula that Albright has pressed in her eight-nation diplomatic campaign.	CONS
He warned that failure to reach a diplomatic solution would have serious consequences and that Iraq would be the responsible party.	CONS

MOSCOW,	LEAD
Feb. 2- As Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright continued her mission seeking the support of Persian Gulf states for possible airstrikes against Iraq, Russia, France and Turkey today intensified separate diplomatic initiatives aimed at averting military action.	LEAD
Russian officials claimed a breakthrough in their talks with Iraq, saying Iraqi President Saddam Hussein had given qualified permission for U.N. representatives to visit eight presidential sites that were previously off-limits to the U.N. weapons inspection teams.	VERB
Iraq, however, dismissed the Russian report as "totally, totally incorrect.	VERB
Iraq's undersecretary for foreign affairs, Riyadh Qaysi, told a news conference that "no such thing was discussed" by Saddam Hussein and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Viktor Posuvalyuk in talks in Baghdad tonight.	VERB
Qaysi added: "Discussion with Mr. Posuvalyuk is still going on to find a diplomatic and political solution to the crisis.	VERB
I am not going to provide you with even a shade . .	VERB
of what is being discussed.	VERB
Discussions are going on, and this is a good thing.	VERB
Officials at the Kremlin and Russian Foreign Ministry, who earlier were hailing the offer as a triumph for Russian diplomacy, stopped answering telephone calls after word of Iraq's denial of a deal reached Moscow.	CONS
Senior Clinton administration officials reacted coldly to the Russian plan.	VERB
I don't think it's an appropriate solution at this time," Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen said at the Pentagon.	VERB
Asked about the Russian proposal following her talks with Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah in Riyadh, Albright said: "Having kind of piecemeal inspections, that does not strike me as meeting the basic standards that we have been talking about for so long.	VERB
President Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin discussed Iraq during a 20-minute phone conversation today.	VERB
A White House official said Clinton stressed to Yeltsin "the need for unity" among U.N. Security Council members in seeking to force Iraq to accept full access by U.N. weapons inspection teams.	VERB
The president agreed with Yeltsin on the desirability of a diplomatic solution" to the standoff, the official said.	VERB
But Clinton said that Saddam Hussein's continued defiance of the inspection teams is unacceptable.	VERB
A French envoy reportedly was to set out for Baghdad from the Jordanian capital, Amman, on Tuesday.	MAIN
French President Jacques Chirac dispatched top Foreign Ministry official Bertrand Dufourcq to Iraq as part of an apparent French gambit to reach a diplomatic settlement.	MAIN
A French presidential spokeswoman said Dufourcq was carrying a "very firm" message to Saddam Hussein that he must begin cooperating with the United Nations, the Reuters news agency reported.	VERB
She said Chirac and Yeltsin discussed the Iraqi crisis during a 30-minute phone conversation Monday night.	VERB
France and Russia continue to favor a diplomatic solution to resolve the crisis and obtain Iraq's full respect for Security Council resolutions," said the spokeswoman, who was not identified.	VERB
The French and the Russians are continuing their cooperation with other Security Council members to assure unanimity in the firmness of their approach to Iraq.	VERB
Marc Grossman, U.S. assistant secretary of state for European and Canadian affairs, who was in Ankara today for talks with Turkish government and military leaders, voiced doubt that any of the diplomatic initiatives could successfully end the crisis.	VERB
Whether they be Turkish, French or Russian, if [the diplomatic initiatives] can produce a result, well, we would welcome that," he said.	VERB
But I must say that we are skeptical, given the past Iraqi behavior.	VERB
Nonetheless, Turkish Foreign Minister Ismail Cem announced he will travel to Iraq later this week.	VERB
We don't want our children to be threatened by weapons of mass destruction," he told reporters.	VERB
But we don't want a war either.	VERB
U.S. Air Force Gen. Joseph Ralston, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and a member of the visiting U.S. delegation in Ankara, said the United States has not formally asked Turkey for use of its southern Incirlik air base for a possible bombing campaign against Iraq.	VERB
No decisions have been made on the use of force," Ralston told reporters, "and as a result, we have made no new requests to the Turkish military."	VERB
But Turkish Defense Minister Ismet Sezgin held open the possibility that Turkey would give its permission.	VERB
We have not received any such request up until now.	VERB
If a request came then we would evaluate it," he said at a news conference.	VERB
Egyptian state television reported that Iraqi Foreign Minister Mohammed Saeed Sahhaf will visit Cairo in the next two days for talks.	PREV
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, who is to meet with Albright in Cairo on Tuesday, discussed the crisis with 13 Arab leaders, the TV report said.	PREV
Faced with rising tensions in the Persian Gulf, Israel today deployed four batteries of U.S. Patriot missiles on a hill in its southern Negev desert.	PREV
The missiles were installed above the city of Arad, about 27 miles from an Israeli nuclear reactor that was the apparent target of some of the 39 Scud missiles that Iraq fired at the Jewish state in the 1991 Gulf War.	PREV
The Israeli army, which first refused to comment on the deployment, later called it a routine training drill.	VERB
Russia repeatedly has opposed threats made by the United States and backed by Britain to bomb Iraq if Saddam Hussein does not grant U.N. inspectors unhindered access to sites they suspect are used for storage and development of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons or missiles capable of delivering them.	PREV
An evident shift in Iraq's position was achieved due to Russian diplomacy," said Sergei Yastrzhembsky, Yeltsin's spokesman, before Iraq issued its denial.	VERB
Diplomatic efforts to settle the situation have not been exhausted.	VERB
According to Tass and the Interfax news agency, Saddam had agreed to permit inspectors access to the eight sites, all of which are presidential compounds, so long as the team included technicians from of each of the five permanent member states of the U.N. Security Council -- the United States, Russia, China, Britain and France.	CIRC
The inspections would also have to take place in the company of diplomats from each of the five.	CIRC
In effect, the plan would suggest that the inspectors represent not the United Nations, but their countries of origin.	CIRC
The Iraqi leader put a further condition on the visits: Although the inspectors would be permitted to visit the buildings, they could not inspect the territory surrounding them, according to an account issued by Interfax.	CIRC
That would fall short of the U.S. and British insistence that the inspectors have unlimited access.	CIRC
As Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright continued her mission seeking the support of Persian Gulf states for possible airstrikes against Iraq, Russia, France and Turkey today intensified separate diplomatic initiatives aimed at averting military action.	LEAD
Russian officials claimed a breakthrough in their talks with Iraq, saying Iraqi President Saddam Hussein had given qualified permission for U.N. representatives to visit eight presidential sites that were previously off-limits to the U.N. weapons inspection teams.	MAIN
Iraq, however, dismissed the Russian report as "totally, totally incorrect.	VERB
Iraq's undersecretary for foreign affairs, Riyadh Qaysi, told a news conference that "no such thing was discussed" by Saddam Hussein and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Viktor Posuvalyuk in talks in Baghdad tonight.	VERB
Qaysi added: "Discussion with Mr. Posuvalyuk is still going on to find a diplomatic and political solution to the crisis.	VERB
I am not going to provide you with even a shade . .	VERB
of what is being discussed.	VERB
Discussions are going on, and this is a good thing.	VERB
Officials at the Kremlin and Russian Foreign Ministry, who earlier were hailing the offer as a triumph for Russian diplomacy, stopped answering telephone calls after word of Iraq's denial of a deal reached Moscow.	CONS
Senior Clinton administration officials reacted coldly to the Russian plan.	VERB
I don't think it's an appropriate solution at this time," Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen said at the Pentagon.	VERB
Asked about the Russian proposal following her talks with Saudi Crown Prince Abdullah in Riyadh, Albright said: "Having kind of piecemeal inspections, that does not strike me as meeting the basic standards that we have been talking about for so long.	VERB
President Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin discussed Iraq during a 20-minute phone conversation today.	VERB
A White House official said Clinton stressed to Yeltsin "the need for unity" among U.N. Security Council members in seeking to force Iraq to accept full access by U.N. weapons inspection teams.	VERB
The president agreed with Yeltsin on the desirability of a diplomatic solution" to the standoff, the official said.	VERB
But Clinton said that Saddam Hussein's continued defiance of the inspection teams is unacceptable.	VERB
A French envoy reportedly was to set out for Baghdad from the Jordanian capital, Amman, on Tuesday.	MAIN
French President Jacques Chirac dispatched top Foreign Ministry official Bertrand Dufourcq to Iraq as part of an apparent French gambit to reach a diplomatic settlement.	MAIN
A French presidential spokeswoman said Dufourcq was carrying a "very firm" message to Saddam Hussein that he must begin cooperating with the United Nations, the Reuters news agency reported.	VERB
She said Chirac and Yeltsin discussed the Iraqi crisis during a 30-minute phone conversation Monday night.	VERB
France and Russia continue to favor a diplomatic solution to resolve the crisis and obtain Iraq's full respect for Security Council resolutions," said the spokeswoman, who was not identified.	VERB
The French and the Russians are continuing their cooperation with other Security Council members to assure unanimity in the firmness of their approach to Iraq.	VERB
Marc Grossman, U.S. assistant secretary of state for European and Canadian affairs, who was in Ankara today for talks with Turkish government and military leaders, voiced doubt that any of the diplomatic initiatives could successfully end the crisis.	VERB
Whether they be Turkish, French or Russian, if [the diplomatic initiatives] can produce a result, well, we would welcome that," he said.	VERB
But I must say that we are skeptical, given the past Iraqi behavior.	VERB
Nonetheless, Turkish Foreign Minister Ismail Cem announced he will travel to Iraq later this week.	VERB
We don't want our children to be threatened by weapons of mass destruction," he told reporters.	VERB
But we don't want a war either.	VERB
U.S. Air Force Gen. Joseph Ralston, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and a member of the visiting U.S. delegation in Ankara, said the United States has not formally asked Turkey for use of its southern Incirlik air base for a possible bombing campaign against Iraq.	VERB
No decisions have been made on the use of force," Ralston told reporters, "and as a result, we have made no new requests to the Turkish military."	VERB
But Turkish Defense Minister Ismet Sezgin held open the possibility that Turkey would give its permission.	VERB
We have not received any such request up until now.	VERB
If a request came then we would evaluate it," he said at a news conference.	VERB
Egyptian state television reported that Iraqi Foreign Minister Mohammed Saeed Sahhaf will visit Cairo in the next two days for talks.	CONS
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak, who is to meet with Albright in Cairo on Tuesday, discussed the crisis with 13 Arab leaders, the TV report said.	CONS
Faced with rising tensions in the Persian Gulf, Israel today deployed four batteries of U.S. Patriot missiles on a hill in its southern Negev desert.	PREV
The missiles were installed above the city of Arad, about 27 miles from an Israeli nuclear reactor that was the apparent target of some of the 39 Scud missiles that Iraq fired at the Jewish state in the 1991 Gulf War.	PREV
The Israeli army, which first refused to comment on the deployment, later called it a routine training drill.	VERB
Russia repeatedly has opposed threats made by the United States and backed by Britain to bomb Iraq if Saddam Hussein does not grant U.N. inspectors unhindered access to sites they suspect are used for storage and development of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons or missiles capable of delivering them.	CIRC
An evident shift in Iraq's position was achieved due to Russian diplomacy," said Sergei Yastrzhembsky, Yeltsin's spokesman, before Iraq issued its denial.	VERB
Diplomatic efforts to settle the situation have not been exhausted.	VERB
According to Tass and the Interfax news agency, Saddam had agreed to permit inspectors access to the eight sites, all of which are presidential compounds, so long as the team included technicians from of each of the five permanent member states of the U.N. Security Council -- the United States, Russia, China, Britain and France.	CIRC
The inspections would also have to take place in the company of diplomats from each of the five.	CIRC
In effect, the plan would suggest that the inspectors represent not the United Nations, but their countries of origin.	CIRC
The Iraqi leader put a further condition on the visits: Although the inspectors would be permitted to visit the buildings, they could not inspect the territory surrounding them, according to an account issued by Interfax.	CIRC
That would fall short of the U.S. and British insistence that the inspectors have unlimited access.	CIRC

National Public Radio President Delano Lewis last week violated the adage that there are some things even your best friends won't tell you.	LEAD
Lewis told his longtime friend Robert Johnson, founder of Washington's Black Entertainment Television Network, that Johnson's offer to buy out the public stockholders of BET Holdings Inc. for $ 48 a share isn't good enough.	MAIN
The pronouncement surprised investors who had complained that as a hand-picked member of BET's board, Lewis was likely to rubber stamp the $ 288 million buyout bid made by Johnson and his partners at Liberty Media Group, a subsidiary of the cable television giant Tele-Communications Inc..	VERB
But it was a pleasant surprise for the investors who have complained in a shareholders' lawsuit that Johnson's $ 48 offer in November was a low-ball bid for stock that could be worth twice that much.	VERB
Because of Lewis's rejection, the betting is that stockholders will get a better offer, probably soon.	EXPE
Lewis was put on the spot last fall when Johnson appointed him a committee of one to evaluate the offer on behalf of BET's board of directors.	PREV
For example, BET's board includes Johnson's wife, Sheila; actor Denzel Washington; TCI President John Malone; and Liberty President Robert Bennett, as well as others with ties to the founder.	CIRC
Like board members of most companies created by entrepreneurs, BET's directors are not people prone to playing hardball with the chief executive.	EVAL
Since Johnson controls two-thirds of the votes of BET's three classes of stock, he picks most of the directors.	CIRC
Lewis, a former president of Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Cos., is the closest thing the BET board has to an independent, professional outside director.	CIRC
He also is on the boards of Colgate-Palmolive Co., Guest Services Inc. and Halliburton Co.	CIRC
Asking for an "independent evaluation" or a "fairness opinion" is standard procedure when insiders of a company make an offer to buy out the public shareholders.	EVAL
Cynicism is the standard reaction to those "independent evaluations.	EVAL
Investment bankers in the past have given their stamp of approval to many buyouts that were later declared by judges to be unfair to the stockholders.	EVAL
Whether the decision to reject the BET offer reinforced that cynicism or proved that board members really can be independent depends on how you look at it.	EVAL
One view is that not even Bob Johnson's best friend could have held his nose and proclaimed that $ 48 is a fair price for BET stock.	EVAL
Giving Lewis full credit for his professionalism and independence, it didn't take an investment banker to suspect the price was too low, even though it was $ 10 a share more than the stock was selling for at the time.	EVAL
Investors certainly thought so.	CONS
As soon as the offer was made in September, the stock jumped to more than $ 50 from about $ 40 a share, then moved up a few dollars a share.	CONS
Rejection of the Johnson buyout offer pushed the shares to an all-time high of $ 55.12 1/2 on Friday.	CONS
Another view is that Lewis was guaranteed to get sued if he went along with the $ 48-a-share offer.	EXPE
A favorable fairness opinion simply would have added Lewis and the investment bankers at Goldman Sachs & Co. to the list of defendants in the shareholders lawsuit, which was filed by a New York attorney who specializes in such cases.	EXPE
Goldman Sachs was hired by Lewis to crunch the numbers and calculate whether Johnson and TCI were offering a fair price.	CIRC
Their conclusion was a terse pronouncement that $ 48 "is not adequate.	CIRC
Lewis was out of town last week and referred inquiries to Arthur Bill of Washington's Freedman, Levy, Kroll and Simonds, who is counsel to the Lewis committee.	CONS
The decision doesn't mean the buyout is off, Bill said.	VERB
Discussions are ongoing between the special committee and the buyers' group," he said.	VERB
He wouldn't say whether Goldman Sachs had placed a value on the stock.	VERB
All I can say is that Goldman and Salomon Brothers [the investment bankers for Johnson and TCI] are going to be engaging in discussions of whether the principals can reach an understanding.	VERB
BET's official position is "no comment," said Media Relations Director Michele Moore.	VERB
It's typical for players in these games to hold their cards close to the vest.	EVAL
One investor who is betting on Johnson to raise his bid is Mario Gabelli, the New York money manager who is the biggest outside shareholder in BET.	CIRC
A report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission last Thursday reveals Gabelli has been methodically buying up BET stock recently.	CIRC
As of Jan. 23 he controlled 1.74 million shares, or 17.3 percent of BET's Class A stock -- the only kind owned by the public.	CIRC
The ball's now in Bob Johnson and Bob Bennett's court," Gabelli said last week.	VERB
It's up to them to up it or walk away.	VERB
Gabelli's SEC reports show companies he controls own BET stock for clients, and they've continued to buy as the stock price has soared well beyond the $ 48 offer on the table.	CIRC
Clearly, he thinks any new offer would have to be higher than that.	VERB
Forty-eight was too low.	VERB
Everybody knows that.	VERB
I'd pay $ 55," added Gabelli, who said his calculations value BET at between $ 58 and $ 72 a share.	VERB
Gabelli says that besides a better offer from BET insiders, there are a couple of other possibilities.	VERB
One would be that Goldman and Salomon Bros. can't agree on a price, so Johnson puts the offer on hold.	VERB
In which case," Gabelli said, "my clients are not unhappy" because they like owning the stock.	VERB
Or "they come in with a price that is below what I call fair, then I can either accept it or go for appraisal rights.	VERB
Legally, minority shareholders who object to a buyout can demand an independent appraisal of the stock, which both sides must then accept.	VERB
Gabelli says he's not trying to hold the proverbial gun to Johnson's head.	VERB
Quoting one of the aphorisms that has made him a favorite of financial television shows, "Bulls make money.	VERB
Bears make money.	VERB
Pigs get slaughtered.	VERB
While Gabelli insists the stock is worth more than Johnson offered, he is not a party to the shareholder suit.	CIRC
The shareholder lawsuit is a scam," he said.	VERB
These lawyers are ambulance chasers.	VERB
It's like a Madonna concert, they're rushing to get on queue first" so they can collect legal fees by persuading the defendants to settle the case quickly.	VERB
Some shareholder lawsuits challenging takeovers have merit, he added, "but some are filed by pilgrims.	VERB
You know what pilgrims are?	VERB
Early settlers.	VERB
Since Johnson made his offer to buy out public shareholders, Gabelli has bought an additional 200,000 shares of stock, according to his latest SEC filings.	CIRC
The stock, held by half a dozen entities he controls, is worth about $ 83.5 million at the $ 48-a-share price on the table.	CIRC
Kick the offer up to, say, $ 55 a share, and he'd get more than $ 95 million.	CIRC
That price would raise the total cost of the buyback from $ 288 million to $ 330 million, which Johnson and his partners ought to be able to afford.	CONS
BET has only $ 62 million in debt and generated $ 33 million in cash flow last year, more than enough to cover the interest on $ 330 million at today's rates.	CONS
Johnson owns 20.9 percent of the stock, TCI holds 18.2 percent and 6.6 percent is under control of Capital Group Cos., a Los Angeles investment firm.	CIRC
Besides the common stock, which was sold to the public for $ 17 a share in 1991, BET has two other classes of stock that are owned exclusively by insiders.	CIRC
The Class B stock is entirely owned by TCI and the Class C stock is all Johnson's.	CIRC
Those two stocks have 10 voters per share, compared with one vote a share of the common.	CIRC
As a practical matter, the public shareholders have no real voice in how BET is run and not much leverage in buyout negotiations.	CIRC
That powerless position is all too familiar for Washington investors.	EVAL
Dozens of corporations in the region are dominated by the entrepreneurs who started the company and then sold a minority interest to the public.	EVAL
Horror stories abound, lead by the laments of shareholders held hostage by the Haft family's previous domination of Dart Group Inc., the Landover-based holding company for Crown Books and Trak Auto.	EVAL
Given all the abuses that shareholders in those and other companies have suffered at the hands of insiders, BET's stockholders now appear to have a good shot at getting a fair shake from Bob Johnson and John Malone.	EXPE
They'll need to thank Del Lewis for that.	EXPE
How grateful they'll be depends on Johnson's next offer.	EXPE

Maryland Federal Bancorp Inc., a Hyattsville-based thrift, announced yesterday that it will be acquired by BB&T Corp. of Winston-Salem, N.C., for $ 265.3 million in stock.	MAIN
The purchase will more than double BB&T's presence in the Washington area, furthering a push into the region that began last year with the company's announcement that it would buy Franklin Bancorp Inc., a small D.C. bank.	CONS
BB&T, with about $ 30 billion in assets the nation's 31st-largest banking company, joins several other major banks that have been gobbling up smaller locally based institutions to create or expand their presence in the Washington region.	CIRC
Analysts praised the deal as a smart way for BB&T to establish itself here, saying the combination would benefit shareholders.	VERB
They have an excellent track record of enhancing the profitability of the acquired bank by offering customers a wider array of products and services, as well as turning it into a more sales-oriented business," said analyst Ed Najarian of Wheat First Union in Richmond.	VERB
John Allison, BB&T's chairman, said in a statement that the acquisition will "strengthen our position in one of the fastest-growing markets in the nation and establish us in a state that ranks fifth nationally in median household and personal income per capita.	VERB
Officials at BB&T and Maryland Federal, however, said the new out-of-town owner won't mean the loss of that hometown feel.	VERB
BB&T believes in . . .	VERB
providing the highest level of personal service possible," Robert Halleck, Maryland Federal president and chief executive, said in a statement.	VERB
Halleck will become president of the new Maryland region.	VERB
Officials said there are no plans to close any of Maryland Federal's 28 branches.	CONS
They said layoffs, if any, will be minimal.	CONS
Maryland Federal, with about 225 employees and $ 1.2 billion in assets, is one of the few remaining sizable thrifts in Maryland.	CIRC
It has offices in 24 cities in Prince George's, Montgomery, Anne Arundel and Calvert counties.	CIRC
BB&T, with about 10,500 employees, has 506 offices in the Carolinas and Virginia.	CIRC
Yesterday's deal values Maryland Federal at $ 37.05 a share, a 17 percent premium over Tuesday's $ 31.75 closing price.	CONS
Based on BB&T's Tuesday closing price of $ 62 a share, the exchange ratio will be .5975 of a share of BB&T common stock for each share of Maryland Federal common stock.	CONS
BB&T's stock dropped 5/16 to close at $ 61-11/16 on the New York Stock Exchange, while Maryland Federal's stock closed at $ 35.75, up $ 4, on the Nasdaq Stock Market.	CONS
The boards of both companies have approved the acquisition.	EXPE
But Maryland Federal shareholders and federal and state banking regulators also must endorse the deal.	EXPE
The companies expect the acquisition to be completed in the third quarter.	EXPE
In December, BB&T said it would pay $ 165.1 million in stock for Franklin Bancorp, a Washington-based bank with $ 535 million in assets and nine branches.	CIRC
BB&T also recently agreed to buy Life Bancorp of Norfolk for $ 359.2 million in stock.	CIRC
After the acquisitions, BB&T will have about $ 5 billion in assets in Virginia and the D.C. area.	CONS

Computer Sciences Corp. sued Computer Associates International Inc. yesterday, alleging that its top two executives illegally offered Computer Sciences' chief executive millions of dollars to support a merger offer that CSC decided to reject.	MAIN
The lawsuit, filed in Los Angeles County Superior Court as part of CSC's counteroffensive against Computer Associates' $ 9.8 billion hostile takeover bid, alleged that Computer Associates' CEO, Charles B. Wang, and its president, Sanjay Kumar, offered to pay Van B. Honeycutt, Computer Sciences' CEO, more than $ 50 million to support the offer.	MAIN
CSC also alleged that the two executives promised Honeycutt he would receive guaranteed stock options worth at least $ 35 million and a guaranteed seven-year contract with an annual base income of at least $ 2.5 million.	MAIN
But Computer Sciences' suit characterized the alleged offer by the Computer Associates' executives as part of an "unfair, unlawful and fraudulent scheme . . . to acquire CSC at less than its value by employing wrongful and illegal means.	CIRC
A Computer Associates International spokesman said the company could not comment because it had not seen a copy of the lawsuit.	VERB
Court papers filed by Computer Sciences detailed a Dec. 18, 1997, visit by Wang and Kumar to CSC's El Segundo, Calif., headquarters to meet with Honeycutt.	CIRC
Discussions about potential executive compensation are typical in merger negotiations.	EVAL
Indeed, Computer Sciences' board, as part of its takeover defense, has voted multimillion-dollar "golden parachute" payments to Honeycutt and 16 other top executives should CAI win the battle.	CIRC
At the meeting, according to CSC's lawsuit, they told Honeycutt, "wouldn't it be great if we were partners," but Honeycutt responded that CSC was not for sale.	CIRC
After some additional discussion, the suit alleged, Wang asked Honeycutt if he and Kumar could speak privately for five minutes, and Honeycutt left the room.	CIRC
When he returned, the suit alleges, Wang made the offer of a $ 50 million payment as well as the stock options and seven-year contract.	CIRC
The conduct of defendants was an intentional, unlawful and corrupt attempt to buy Honeycutt's support of a transaction that only benefited CAI at the expense of CSC and its shareholders," the suit alleges.	VERB
It said the executives' conduct violates California laws on commercial bribery.	VERB
Computer Sciences asked the court to prohibit Computer Associates from proceeding with its proposal to acquire CSC, and from communicating with CSC's customers and employees about any proposed deal.	CONS
The California company also asked that CAI be ordered to pay restitution to CSC "in an amount to be determined at trial.	CONS
Computer Sciences, which employs 7,300 people at its federal systems division in Falls Church, named Wang, Kumar and Computer Associates as defendants in the suit.	CIRC
Last week, Islandia, N.Y.-based Computer Associates offered to pay $ 108 a share for CSC's 85 million shares outstanding, and to assume about $ 700 million in Computer Sciences debt.	CIRC
CSC sharply rejected the offer last Thursday, saying the deal would make "no business sense.	CIRC
In a letter to Wang last week, Honeycutt said Computer Sciences had "moved to strengthen our protections against your ill-considered and unwelcome attempt to force an acquisition" and that the company would "utilize every legal means necessary to defeat your attempt.	VERB
Yesterday's action was part of what analysts predict will be a drawn-out takeover battle filled with legal maneuvering.	EXPE
Computer Sciences is usually prone to diplomacy, but that's certainly not the case here," said Bob Dornan, senior vice president of Federal Sources, a McLean-based consulting firm.	VERB
If they go down, they're going to go down in a blaze of guns.	VERB

Washington Mutual Inc., the nation's largest thrift, agreed yesterday to buy rival H.F. Ahmanson & Co. for $ 9.9 billion, creating a financial services behemoth that would compete with some of the largest banks in the country.	LEAD
The combination of Seattle-based Washington Mutual and Ahmanson, the holding company for Home Savings of America, would form the nation's seventh-largest consumer bank, with 6 million customers and about 2,000 branches stretching from Texas to California, as well as in Florida.	CONS
Ahmanson, of Irwindale, Calif., is the second-largest thrift in the country.	CONS
While the sale passed the boards of both companies, it still must be approved by regulators.	CIRC
Analysts said other thrifts may follow Washington Mutual's lead, with the strong economy and a healthy industry leading to more consolidation.	VERB
Industry experts generally applauded the acquisition, saying it would help Washington Mutual better compete with large banks such as BankAmerica Corp. and Wells Fargo & Co., which it will surpass in size with assets of nearly $ 150 billion.	VERB
In recent years, thrifts have begun offering an array of financial products, including insurance, mutual funds and brokerage services to compete with banks.	VERB
It's a great acquisition for both Washington Mutual and Ahmanson shareholders," said Martin Friedman, a senior thrift analyst with the investment bank Friedman, Billings & Ramsey in Arlington.	VERB
It creates a powerful consumer franchise in California that will be able to compete effectively against the big banks.	VERB
The deal brings together companies that were bitter rivals last year in their attempts to take over Great Western Financial Corp., the nation's third-largest thrift.	PREV
It was eventually acquired by Washington Mutual after Ahmanson made a hostile offer for the California thrift.	PREV
The purchase is the latest transaction in a rapidly consolidating industry, which after being battered by the real estate debacle of the 1980s has made a comeback in recent years.	EVAL
Last year, the thrift industry earned a record $ 6.5 billion, up nearly 40 percent from the previous year while the number of problem institutions fell sharply to 18 from 29.	PREV
In 1990, more than 300 thrifts were listed as troubled.	PREV
We have much healthier and cleaner institutions now," said Ella Allen, spokesman for the Office of Thrift Supervision, the federal agency that oversees the industry.	VERB
Thrifts take deposits and make loans to consumers and small businesses, primarily through mortgages.	CIRC
Unlike banks, thrifts do not make large commercial loans.	CIRC
Both companies' stocks were heavily traded yesterday.	CONS
On the Nasdaq Stock Market, shares of Washington Mutual closed at a record high of $ 72.93 3/4, up 1.18 3/4 while Ahmanson shares surged $ 12.37 1/2 to close at $ 77.87 1/2.	CONS
The purchase price, about 19 times earnings, was in line with what other thrifts have paid in acquisitions in recent months but slightly less than banks, which have been fetching 20 to 25 times earnings.	EVAL
The combination of our two companies will create a West Coast-based financial institution competitive with the nation's largest banking companies," Charles R. Rinehart, Ahmanson's chairman and chief executive, said in a statement.	VERB
Washington Mutual officials said the acquisition will help the company consolidate operations and cut annual costs by $ 330 million.	VERB
It expects to take a one-time, $ 254 million charge as part of its plan to slash 3,000 to 3,500 jobs and close 160 to 170 branches.	VERB
Neither company has employees or offices in the Washington, D.C., area.	CIRC

Comsat Corp. said yesterday that it has a buyer for its RSI satellite equipment manufacturing division, nearly one year after putting it up for sale.	LEAD
The Bethesda-based satellite communications company said that TBG Industries Inc., a privately owned New York holding company, would buy RSI for $ 116.5 million.	MAIN
RSI, based in Sterling, designs, manufactures, installs and operates ground-based satellite antenna systems, air-traffic control radar, radio astronomy antennas and other communications systems for military and commercial use.	HIST
The sale reduces Comsat's payroll almost by half:	CONS
RSI employs 1,200 of Comsat's 2,600 workers.	CONS
TBG officials did not return calls seeking comment, but a Comsat spokeswoman said she did not expect layoffs at RSI.	CONS
Comsat bought RSI for $ 150 million in stock in February 1994, when it was called	PREV
Radiation Systems Inc. RSI had $ 10 million in annual profit, $ 120 million in sales and had just won an $ 18 million contract to furnish three satellite systems to Kuwait.	PREV
Bruce Crockett, Comsat's chairman at the time, predicted the unit would have sales of $ 400 million to $ 500 million by 1997.	VERB
But RSI fell far short of those goals.	CIRC
Comsat declined to release specific figures but said that RSI in 1997 accounted for "the majority" of $ 300 million in revenue from its technology services unit, which includes Comsat's laboratories.	CIRC
Crockett's replacement as president and chief executive, Betty Alewine, put RSI up for sale last March as part of her strategy to focus on Comsat's core business of providing satellite communications services.	PREV
In June, Comsat declared RSI a discontinued operation, and the company took a $ 60 million write-off last year.	PREV
It's good to get this non-core, difficult operation out of the way," said George Reed Dellinger, a telecommunications analyst for HSBC Washington Analysis.	VERB
Unfortunately, this probably was not a good fit" with Comsat.	VERB
The sale price is subject to adjustment based on loans and advances between Comsat Corp. and RSI at the time the deal closes, Comsat officials said.	VERB
Comsat will use sale proceeds to pay off short-term debt.	VERB
Comsat agreed to keep two divisions of RSI, called Electromechanical Systems Inc. and	CONS
Plexsys International Corp. Comsat also will keep a long-term construction contract for a radio telescope in Green Bank, W. Va.	CONS
The company in late February sold another RSI subsidiary, JEFA Wireless Systems, to Able Telecom Holding Corp. for an undisclosed amount.	PREV
Comsat shares closed yesterday at $ 34.75, up 31 1/4 cents.	CONS
The sale marks the last major piece of Alewine's plan to divest Comsat of extraneous businesses.	PREV
The company last year spun off its 80 percent ownership stake in Ascent Entertainment Group, which owns a film studio and two professional sports teams in Denver.	PREV
The company now focuses on providing satellite services to customers as the largest owner and user of the Intelsat and Inmarsat satellite consortia, and on building digital communications networks -- using land- and space-based equipment -- for businesses overseas.	CIRC
Comsat's next challenge is to fend off legislation pending in Congress that calls for a quicker and more extensive privatization of Intelsat than the treaty organization is on the verge of approving.	EVAL
Comsat calls the legislation punitive because if the congressional schedule is not met it would allow Comsat's U.S. customers to have direct access to Intelsat services and could restrict Comsat from providing some new services it already offers, including Internet access.	VERB

Nolanda S. Hill, the onetime business partner of the late Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown, was indicted yesterday by a federal grand jury on charges that she diverted more than $ 200,000 from companies she controlled to buy clothes and jewelry for herself and failed to report it as income on her tax returns.	MAIN
Hill, 53, a Dallas broadcasting entrepreneur who owned WFTY-TV (Channel 50) in Washington and another station in Massachusetts, also was charged with diverting more than $ 557,000 from one of her companies to her partner.	MAIN
Although Brown was not named in the indictment, he was her partner in that company, First International Communications Corp., which failed to put together any successful business ventures during its existence.	MAIN
The nine-count indictment also charged Kenneth C. White, 49, a Maryland resident and former executive of one of her companies.	MAIN
The case results from an investigation by the Justice Department that was begun by former independent counsel Daniel S. Pearson.	CIRC
The Justice Department took over the probe after Brown died in a plane crash in Croatia in 1996 and Pearson closed his office.	PREV
The charges against Hill and White include conspiracy to defraud the Internal Revenue Service, conspiracy to defraud the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., making false statements and aiding and assisting in the preparation of false tax returns.	MAIN
One of Hill's attorneys, Courtney Simmons Elwood, said yesterday that Hill is "innocent" and "deeply regrets that the government's investigation [of Brown] has ended with unfounded charges against his former business associates.	VERB
Before his death, Brown repeatedly denied wrongdoing.	VERB
His attorney, Reid H. Weingarten, said yesterday that the grand jury not only did not name Brown, but did not charge that he was "a knowing participant in wrongdoing.	VERB
The grand jury said that Hill spent thousands of dollars on trips to tropical climates, and on jewelry and designer clothes at expensive stores and boutiques from Beverly Hills to Boston.	MAIN
She shopped at such high-priced stores as Gucci at the Watergate, Jean Claude Jitrois of Beverly Hills, and Escada Boutique in Palm Beach.	MAIN
During the time of the alleged illegal activities, Hill was president of Corridor Broadcasting Corp., a Texas company that owned Channel 50 and WHLL-TV in the Boston area.	CIRC
The grand jury said that during the mid-1980s, Corridor borrowed $ 21 million from Sunbelt Savings & Loan in Texas.	MAIN
Corridor did not make payments on the loan, which the FDIC took over as creditor after Sunbelt failed.	MAIN
In meetings with FDIC officials, Hill and White allegedly lied about Corridor's financial condition and supplied the agency with doctored books and records that hid numerous diversions of funds.	CIRC
According to the indictment, Hill siphoned off nearly $ 200,000 from Corridor and another $ 37,000 from another company to cover her shopping binges.	MAIN
She allegedly spent that money at the same time she collected a generous annual salary that ranged from $ 170,000 to nearly $ 260,000 from 1990 to 1994.	MAIN
At the same time, Hill formed First International Communications Corp. to pursue possible foreign and domestic business ventures.	CIRC
Her partner in that company was Brown, a former chairman of the Democratic National Committee.	CIRC
Hill, who sometimes shows up to business meetings wearing leather and driving a Harley-Davidson motorcycle, often bragged about how her business ties to Brown provided her with access to Washington's elite, according to friends and other sources.	CIRC
She also credited Brown with getting her invited to the White House on at least three occasions.	CIRC
The grand jury said that Hill and White diverted large sums of money from Corridor and another company, Jasas Corp., "for the purpose of making payments to and for the benefit of [Hill's] business partner" in First International and her limited partner in yet another business venture, FICC Limited Partnership.	MAIN
Brown was that partner.	MAIN
Pearson, the independent counsel, was appointed in 1995 to investigate how Brown made nearly $ 500,000 by selling his interest in First International	CIRC
In exchange for selling his interest back to the firm, Brown received $ 135,000 in cash, forgiveness of a $ 72,000 debt he owed to another company owned by Hill and an agreement that $ 300,000 in his personal debts would be paid off.	MAIN
Although again not naming Brown, the grand jury said Hill and White diverted nearly $ 300,000 in company funds to Hill's personal attorney, who, in turn, used the money to pay off Brown's debts.	MAIN
Hill allegedly used her companies' funds to pay off her debts as well.	MAIN
Her shopping sprees rarely cost less than $ 1,000 and cost as much as $ 5,438, which she spent in one day in 1993 at St. John Boutique in Dallas.	MAIN
She also spent thousands of dollars on airline tickets to the Bahamas, London and Ecuador for herself, her family and friends, according to the grand jury.	MAIN
The indictment said Hill failed to reimburse her companies and should have reported the funds she received as income on her tax returns for 1991, 1992 and 1993.	MAIN
While she spent the money, she allegedly lied to Sunbelt loan officials in 1989 about Corridors' operations by painting a "bleak financial picture," according to the grand jury.	MAIN
Two years later, Hill and White allegedly told Sunbelt officials that Corridor had a cash flow crisis and couldn't make payments on its loan.	MAIN
Hill also allegedly lied when she said she was not drawing a salary and was paying corporate legal fees out of her own pocket.	MAIN

The likely leadership of India's next government grew more uncertain today after the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party, which emerged from a midterm election with the most seats in the new Parliament, lost support of its biggest ally and fell further short of a parliamentary majority.	MAIN
The political dispute prompted President K.R. Narayanan, who is empowered to appoint the prime minister, to announce he will explore the possibility of an alternative coalition government that would merge the two other blocs in Parliament.	CONS
Narayanan said he will continue talks with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) even as he confers with leaders of the two other blocs -- the once-dominant Congress party and the ruling United Front coalition.	CONS
The president is to meet Friday with Sitaram Kesri, outgoing president of the Congress party, which controls the second-largest bloc of legislators.	CONS
Narayanan has appointments later in the day separately with former prime minister H.D. Deve Gowda, representing the United Front, and two of the ruling coalition's communist leaders.	CONS
The day's developments demonstrated how the close division of the new Parliament makes it even more unstable than the last one, elected in 1996.	EVAL
The old Parliament threw together two governments led by the United Front, a coalition of 13 parties whose reign was marked by indecision, infighting and policy drift.	CIRC
In this year's staggered voting, the BJP-led bloc -- with a dozen partners, almost as many the United Front -- emerged as the top vote-getter with 252 seats.	MAIN
The biggest ally of the BJP was a regional party from the southern state of Tamil Nadu with 18 seats.	MAIN
And that party, the All India Dravidian Progressive Federation, has thrown a big obstacle into BJP plans to take power as soon as this weekend.	EVAL
J. Jayalalitha, the Dravidian party's leader, has declined to submit a formal statement of support for a BJP-led government.	CONS
So when Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the BJP's choice to become prime minister, met Narayanan today, he carried written commitments from 240 legislators -- 33 short of a majority in the 545-member lower house of Parliament.	CONS
Had Vajpayee brought commitments from a majority of the new Parliament's members, Narayanan presumably would have formally invited the BJP to form a government.	EXPE
Jayalalitha, a former movie star whom her party's members call "Mother," did not disclose why she was withholding support.	VERB
But leaders of the BJP and her party said the hangup was a rejection of her nominee as finance minister, Subramaniam Swamy, a Harvard-trained mathematician.	VERB
Vajpayee, 71, last year indicated his discomfort with the BJP's alliance with Jayalalitha, a former chief minister of Tamil Nadu who was jailed on corruption charges after her state government was defeated in the 1996 election.	VERB
Political observers said Vajpayee was personally even more uncomfortable with Swamy, who was once a BJP member.	VERB
Vajpayee told reporters that BJP leaders were still talking to Jayalalitha's party, but he sounded firm in his stance, saying, "I don't feel any pressure, nor will I bow to any pressure.	VERB
The impasse could prove to be a break for Congress and the United Front, which have had their own problems sorting out a new alliance.	EXPE
Several partners of the United Front have expressed reservations about backing a Congress-led government, but if they combined forces, the two blocs would need about 10 more supporters to control a majority in Parliament.	CONS
So far Congress and the United Front have not engaged in serious discussions about renewing their awkward alliance, under which two United Front governments ruled with Congress's backing -- but not its membership in the coalition.	CONS
They had appeared content to watch whether the BJP could pull together a majority and, if it could, to let the Hindu nationalist party grapple with the difficulties of coalition politics, Indian-style.	CONS
Those troubles surfaced perhaps sooner than the BJP's opponents anticipated.	CIRC
V.P. Singh, a former prime minister and driving force behind the United Front, used matrimony and a deadly, illegal Indian custom as a metaphor for the implications of the dispute between the BJP and Jayalalitha's party.	CIRC
If before a marriage, all terms and conditions are not agreed upon," Singh told reporters, "it will lead to bride-burning.	VERB

Indonesia's legislature appointed President Suharto, Asia's longest serving leader, to a seventh five-year term today after granting him sweeping new powers in the midst of the country's worst economic and political crisis in three decades.	MAIN
Suharto was elected by the largely appointed 1,000-member People's Consultative Assembly.	MAIN
The text of the "special powers" decree enacted by the assembly on Monday has not been made public, but political analysts say it likely draws on a similar measure, stemming from the upheavals of the 1960s, that was shelved a few years ago.	MAIN
Indonesia, the world's fourth-most-populous country, with 200 million people, is suffering its worst turmoil since that turbulent period, and there have been mounting calls for Suharto to step aside.	CIRC
There's no way you can have political reform while Suharto is still in power," said one young activist leader who has been among thousands of university students demonstrating for political and economic reform in several cities since the assembly meeting began ten days ago.	VERB
He said protests will continue after the assembly ends on Wednesday, when Suharto is sworn in and the vice president is chosen.	VERB
Local newspapers reported that six students were arrested on Sunday.	CIRC
Security forces have held back from intervening, despite a government ban on demonstrations and large gatherings during the election period.	CIRC
In Washington, the crisis got an extraordinarily bleak assessment from Michel Camdessus, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, who voiced fears that Indonesia could drag down neighboring countries that have begun recovering from their own crises.	VERB
Even if you have the impression that we have made important progress in handling the Asian crisis, even if you are under the impression that Thailand and Korea have turned the corner, we are not there by far in Indonesia," Camdessus told a luncheon during an IMF-sponsored seminar.	VERB
If this problem is not solved soon, the whole thing is at risk.	VERB
Indonesia's newly appointed armed forces chief has signaled he will be tough on protesters after demonstrations against high prices turned into riots in a number of cities last month.	EXPE
If people are hot-tempered and ready to cut down the symbols of the state, yes, I will gladly prohibit them.	VERB
If they are still determined, I will be determined.	VERB
The difference is they are breaking the law, I am protecting the law," Reuters news agency quoted Gen. Wiranto as saying in Forum Keadilan magazine.	VERB
There has been speculation that the special-powers decree would allow Suharto to take a harder line against his opponents in the name of preserving national unity during the current turmoil.	EXPE
But reformers are skeptical.	EXPE
I don't see the need of it because he has special powers already," said one Indonesian political analyst, who, like many government opponents these days, did not want to be identified.	VERB
Some analysts said the decree could allow the 76-year-old leader, who was ill late last year, to override the constitution in naming a successor.	EXPE
Such a move would provide fodder for those who criticize the government as feudalistic.	EVAL
After an outspoken and widely respected magazine last week ran a cover depicting Suharto as the King of Spades, the government took legal action against its editors.	PREV
The president's children, who have wide-reaching and lucrative business interests in Indonesia, have increasingly taken on the role of spokesmen for the administration in the political vacuum leading up to the naming of a new cabinet.	CIRC
The consultative assembly, which is largely appointed by Suharto, includes his relatives, friends and military representatives.	CIRC
The political transition has been cited by officials from the IMF in explaining why they decided to delay the latest payment of the IMF's $ 43-billion bailout of Indonesia.	CIRC
Officials announced last week that the $ 3 billion slated to be paid on March 15 will be held up at least until April.	CIRC
The IMF and Suharto have been locked in a standoff over the economic rescue package, with the West demanding a quick implementation of reforms and Suharto dancing around the measures he twice vowed he would carry out.	CIRC
He also has been dangling the idea of pegging the Indonesian rupiah to the dollar -- a plan inspired by American economist Steve H. Hanke that the IMF and Washington have warned Jakarta against.	CIRC
Both IMF and Indonesian officials sought today to play down their sparring -- which has roiled Southeast Asian markets -- following comments Suharto was quoted as making over the weekend that led some analysts to fear the president had dug in his nationalist heels and decided to reject the bailout altogether.	CIRC
Jusuf Syakir, chairman of the Muslim-dominated United Development Party, emerged from a meeting with Suharto on Sunday announcing that the president said the IMF reforms were "not in line" with the constitution.	VERB
Specifically, Syakir quoted Suharto as saying, the reforms went against an article stipulating that the economy should be organized "based upon the principle of the family system.	VERB
Few Indonesians, foreign businessmen or diplomats missed the irony in a statement coming from a president whose family has amassed more than $ 16 billion over the past three decades and helped inspire the term "crony capitalism.	VERB
Today Bambang Trihatmodjo, one of Suharto's tycoon children and a senior assembly member, said the IMF agreement might have to be renegotiated, the Associated Press reported.	VERB

When Zhu Rongji toured the United States in July 1990, many people called the then-Shanghai mayor "China's Gorbachev," an appellation that annoyed him.	LEAD
I'm not China's Gorbachev," he said.	LEAD
I'm China's Zhu Rongji.	LEAD
Today there is little doubt that the blunt-spoken Zhu is an original.	MAIN
During the annual session of the National People's Congress that starts Thursday, Zhu is slated to become premier and expand his already considerable power.	MAIN
Since being handed the seemingly impossible task of managing China's chaotic economy in early 1993, Zhu has moved to remake the arthritic Communist system and bring it into the market-oriented modern age.	HIST
Moreover, he has done this while engineering a soft landing for the overheated economy and dodging the financial crisis that has beset almost every other country in Asia.	HIST
He will go down in history as one of the great economic figures of the 20th century," said Robert Hormats, a top executive at Goldman Sachs & Co., who has met Zhu on several occasions.	VERB
Hormats ranked Zhu with Ludwig Erhard, who engineered most of Germany's postwar economic miracle.	VERB
Zhu "has a long-term strategic vision of where to go and how to get there," said Nicholas Lardy, an economist at the Brookings Institution who has been a frequent critic of China's banking system.	VERB
Zhu's ascent marks a victory for economic pragmatism and a further step away from the ideologically driven days of the late Communist Party Chairman Mao Zedong.	EVAL
I'm very pragmatic and I'm very happy to have somebody very pragmatic become premier of China," said Tianjin Vice Mayor Ye Disheng.	VERB
He's a very intelligent guy and a great manager.	VERB
Zhu, once condemned as a "rightist," purged from the Communist Party and banished to do menial rural labor, now is known as "boss Zhu.	CIRC
Already the number three person in the ruling Communist Party, he will become the top official in the day-to-day government apparatus.	MAIN
Despite widespread admiration for his ability among those who know him, Zhu remains largely unknown to most Chinese and is loathed by bureaucrats who have been targets of his rebukes.	CIRC
Zhu once said he wanted to buy 100 bullets, use 99 on corrupt bureaucrats and save one for himself.	CIRC
In one meeting, an official showed off a fancy cigarette lighter.	PREV
Zhu said the man couldn't have afforded it on his salary and dismissed him on the spot.	PREV
He also summarily fired a senior provincial bank official whose performance didn't meet his standard.	PREV
Later, he threatened to "chop off the heads" of regional bank officials who defied his edicts.	PREV
He knows his stuff, dares to say the stuff, and pretty much sticks to the stuff," said a Chinese lawyer with a major Western law firm.	VERB
Most analysts say it is unlikely that he would initiate political reforms that might distract from or threaten pressing economic measures.	EXPE
For all his straight talk on economics, however, Zhu's politics remains something of a mystery.	EVAL
As vice premier, he has been dubbed China's "economic czar.	EVAL
As premier, his portfolio will be broader.	EVAL
But many people hope Zhu will prove more liberal and open-minded than his predecessor, Li Peng, who is still associated with the martial law and the bloody army crackdown on June 4, 1989, that crushed student-led democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square.	EXPE
Zhu was born in Hunan Province on Oct. 1, 1928.	HIST
His father died before he was born, and his mother died when he was young.	HIST
Zhu lived with an uncle.	HIST
In 1947, he went to study electrical engineering at Qinghua University, China's equivalent of MIT.	HIST
There he joined the communist-backed New Democratic Youth League in 1947 and the Communist Party in October 1949, just after the Communist victory over the Nationalists.	HIST
By 1952, Zhu was working for the State Planning Commission, then China's most important economic institution, responsible for assigning prices, credit and output targets.	HIST
In 1957, however, during Mao's "Hundred Flowers" campaign to encourage criticism of the Communist Party, Zhu criticized a policy of "irrational" high-level growth.	HIST
When Mao abruptly ended the brief Hundred Flowers period and launched a campaign against the party's critics, Zhu was labeled a "rightist" and sent to the countryside to do menial labor.	HIST
Though many people branded as rightists were political liberals and democrats, there is no indication that Zhu fell into that category.	EVAL
If he couldn't get along well with people, that could have been enough of a reason," said Li Cheng, a professor at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y.	VERB
Zhu was proven right as Mao's Great Leap Forward soon plunged the country into famine.	HIST
In 1962, Zhu's "rightist cap" was removed and he returned to the planning commission.	HIST
But in 1970, the fourth year of the Cultural Revolution, Zhu again was sent to the countryside.	HIST
Zhu wasn't rehabilitated until 1979, after the Cultural Revolution ended and senior leader Deng Xiaoping solidified his power.	HIST
Zhu sped through government ranks, becoming Shanghai's mayor in 1988.	HIST
As mayor, he gained a reputation for efficiency, cutting through the layers of formal approvals and official seals needed to launch joint ventures.	HIST
His most severe test came in 1989, when student demonstrators demanded greater democracy and less corruption.	HIST
In Beijing hundreds were killed in the crackdown, but in Shanghai, Zhu's televised plea persuaded protesters to withdraw relatively peacefully.	HIST
Four days after the Beijing massacre, Zhu published a speech in Shanghai's major newspapers.	HIST
Shunning the official terms "turmoil" and "counterrevolution" to describe the protests, Zhu said: "The event that occurred recently in Beijing is a historical fact, and historical facts cannot be covered up by anybody.	HIST
The truth will always come out.	HIST
The ambiguous statement angered Communist hard-liners who wanted a more vigorous denunciation of the protesters.	HIST
Zhu's handling of events in Shanghai later became an asset.	EVAL
During his 1990 U.S. tour with other Chinese mayors, Zhu could field criticisms of the 1989 crackdown without sounding defensive.	EVAL
His style hasn't won over everyone.	EVAL
He is a creature of the state planning system and his instincts are regulation, not decontrol of the economy," said David Shambaugh, director of George Washington University's Sigur Center for Asian Studies.	VERB
Still, business leaders like Zhu.	VERB
In 1991, Zhu went to Beijing as vice premier.	HIST
When Li Peng had heart trouble in April 1993, Zhu took over the economic portfolio from him and never let it go.	HIST
The tasks have been formidable.	HIST
In 1993, banks diverted cash to flimsy business ventures and paid farmers with worthless IOUs, igniting widespread peasant protests.	HIST
Zhu banned that practice.	HIST
In 1994, he began to transform the People's Bank of China from a cash box for state enterprises into a genuine central bank.	HIST
Dissatisfied with the bank president, he took over the job himself.	HIST
That same year, to improve lax collection of taxes, Zhu forced provinces to turn over tax revenue to the central government in return for a greater share of the receipts.	HIST
By 1995, China's economy was overheating and inflation hit about 25 percent.	HIST
Brushing aside complaints by managers of state-owned enterprises, Zhu clamped down on bank-issued credits to subsidize the enterprises that were losing money.	HIST
He also imposed price controls on staple foods.	HIST
Today, inflation is zero and prices have been falling slightly for four months.	HIST
Zhu has moved cautiously to open financial markets.	VERB
In 1993, recalls Tianjin's Ye, "we really wanted to open China wider to the outside world, but Zhu said, 'With only $ 20 billion in foreign reserves how could we open wider and make investors confident?'	VERB
Given Asia's current economic meltdown, Ye adds, "He's been proven right.	VERB
Today, China has $ 140 billion in foreign exchange reserves, a fixed currency and $ 40 billion to $ 50 billion a year in foreign investment.	CIRC
Daunting problems lie ahead: ailing banks, a porous social safety net and the specter of huge layoffs by unprofitable state-owned enterprises.	EXPE
Zhu says the enterprises will be fixed within three years, but the economy badly needs a new engine of growth and job creation for tens of millions of rural migrants and laid-off urban workers.	EXPE
The party recognizes that its strength depends on the economy, and this is a guy who can deliver," said Hormats, the Goldman Sachs executive.	VERB

Snyder Communications Inc. of Bethesda announced yesterday that it has acquired Arnold Communications Inc., one of New England's biggest advertising agencies, significantly expanding the marketing services it can offer to clients.	MAIN
Privately held Arnold, which had about $ 750 million in billings and $ 90.7 million in revenue last year, handles advertising for such major corporations as McDonald's Corp., Volkswagen of America Inc. and	CIRC
Bell Atlantic Corp. Its local office in McLean is one of the biggest ad agencies in the Washington area, with such clients as the National Geographic Society, the American Red Cross and SAP AG, the German software maker.	CIRC
Adweek, a trade publication, recently selected Arnold as the New England Agency of the Year for the third straight year.	CIRC
The purchase price was not disclosed, but analysts estimated it was about $ 120 million in stock.	EVAL
They said Snyder gains a nationally known creative powerhouse by buying Boston-based Arnold.	EVAL
Snyder creates targeted marketing campaigns for telecommunications, packaged goods and pharmaceutical companies.	CIRC
An increasing number of Fortune 500 companies are turning to a single agency to handle all of their marketing and communications needs.	CIRC
Previously, corporations would spread their work around -- for example, one firm would handle public relations and another would do advertising -- but nowadays they look for a single "fully integrated" agency.	CIRC
For this reason, analysts said, the Arnold acquisition is a smart move for Snyder,.	EVAL
With 900 employees, Arnold operates in several business areas that Snyder does not, including advertising, public relations and interactive media services.	EVAL
Arnold's direct marketing and database management services will complement current offerings by Snyder, analysts said.	EVAL
This brings some new clients to Synder and presents some opportunities for cross-selling," said Fran Blechman Bernstein, an analyst at Merrill Lynch Global Securities.	VERB
Snyder has marketed to patients since its founding.	HIST
For example, the company produces "WallBoards," posters with graphics, information and advertising in doctors' offices and other medical facilities.	HIST
With the acquisition of Arnold, Snyder can make television commercials for its pharmaceutical clients, which include 16 of the top 20 drug companies.	HIST
Arnold is a perfect, perfect fit for our health-care areas," Daniel Snyder said.	VERB
Daniel M. Snyder, Snyder's 33-year-old chairman and chief executive, who founded the company with his sister in 1987, said the purchase will particularly help the firm expand its direct-to-consumer pharmaceutical marketing business.	CONS
In the past few years, drug companies have started targeting their products to specific patient groups, in addition to selling to health-care officials.	CIRC
Snyder said Arnold will still be based in Boston and operate as an independent division of his company, with current management remaining in place.	VERB
He does not expect layoffs.	VERB
With more than 6,800 employees, Snyder had $ 333.4 million in revenue last year and a net loss of $ 8.2 million.	CIRC
Excluding charges related to various acquisitions, the company had net income of $ 26.9 million.	CIRC
Analysts project its 1998 sales will exceed $ 600 million.	CIRC
Also yesterday, the Bethesda company said it acquired Publimed Promotions SA, a Paris-based contract drug sales and marketing company, for $ 43 million in stock.	MAIN
The purchase adds 925 people to Snyder's pharmaceutical sales force, giving the company nearly 4,000 sales representatives.	MAIN
News of the two purchases sent Snyder's stock up $ 2.75 to close at $ 46 5/8 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange.	CONS
The Arnold and Publimed acquisitions cap a string of such deals for Snyder, which spent more than $ 400 million to buy 12 companies in 1997.	CIRC
It has bought four companies so far this year.	CIRC
Bernstein, the Merrill Lynch analyst, said she raised her earnings-per-share estimates from 84 cents to 90 cents this year and from $ 1.25 to $ 1.31 in 1999.	VERB
Her 12-month price objective is now $ 58 a share, up from $ 50 a share.	VERB

Pol Pot, the notorious yet enigmatic Khmer Rouge leader whose reign of terror in Cambodia left more than 2 million people dead but who was later denounced by his own movement, was reported by his former comrades to have died peacefully in his sleep late Wednesday night at age 73.	MAIN
In the last known film of him taken in July, a white-haired Pol Pot appeared frail and sickly, suffering from malaria and unable to walk without assistance.	CIRC
Since then, he has been under house arrest by the colleagues he once commanded, even as their numbers have dwindled to a few hundred because of defections and as their last jungle redoubt has become encircled by Cambodian government troops about to finish off the guerrilla movement and close off for good the bloodiest chapter in Cambodia's tragic history.	CIRC
If his death is confirmed, it would mark an anticlimactic end for one of history's most ruthless human rights abusers.	EVAL
Just days ago, his capture by Cambodian troops seemed certain, and Clinton administration officials were heady with the prospects of bringing Pol Pot before an international tribunal to answer for his crimes.	CIRC
Today, however, officials in various capitals were seeking independent confirmation that Pol Pot was indeed dead.	CONS
A Khmer Rouge official named Nuon Nou, who had been responsible for guarding Pol Pot, informed Thai military officials early today of the death of the group's disgraced leader.	CIRC
But by midday today, Thai officials in Bangkok said they could not confirm that Pol Pot was dead without independent verification, which might include photographs of the corpse or else the actual body.	CIRC
A Thai official said a military team was crossing the border into Cambodia to try to confirm the report of Pol Pot's death.	VERB
If he is really dead, presumably they would want to provide some evidence," the official said.	VERB
Noting that past reports of Pol Pot's death and his supposed retirement from active leadership have proven untrue, the official, speaking by telephone, said, "We've been through this before.	VERB
It was a verbal report made by a Khmer Rouge official to our officers," he said.	VERB
The field officers are of the view that it looks pretty valid.	VERB
They gave a lot of weight to it.	VERB
But the central authorities here in Bangkok have asked for any independent verification.	VERB
In Washington, State Department officials also said they had no independent confirmation whether Pol Pot was dead.	VERB
In Phnom Penh, the Cambodian capital, news of Pol Pot's death was greeted with caution and some skepticism, with officials also demanding to see the body before believing the reports from the jungle.	VERB
There was some speculation that if Pol Pot were dead, his former colleagues may have simply eliminated him to prevent Cambodian troops from capturing him, or to avoid having to turn him over to an international tribunal whose proceedings might have cast an unwelcome spotlight back on the Khmer Rouge's bloody rule of Cambodia from April 1975 until 1979.	CIRC
Maybe they just got rid of him," one Thai Foreign Ministry official said.	VERB
In Phnom Penh, Khieu Kanarith, the government spokesman, demanded an autopsy, saying, "We request whoever has his body to turn it over to the government.	VERB
He added, "There are a lot of coincidences here.	VERB
The Associated Press quoted the Khmer Rouge official, Nuon Nou, as denying any foul play in Pol Pot's death, saying he died from heart problems.	CIRC
Nuon Nou reportedly told the Associated Press by telephone that the guerrillas had taken photographs of the corpse as evidence.	CIRC
In a story based on interviews on April 11, American journalist Nate Thayer, who last talked with Pol Pot in October, reported in the Far Eastern Economic Review magazine that Nuon Nou and other hard-line Khmer Rouge holdouts were ready to turn Pol Pot over to an international tribunal but were uncertain whom to contact.	CIRC
Thayer suggested the guerrillas contact the International Red Cross, according to the magazine account.	CIRC
You can look at me, am I a savage person?	VERB
he asked Thayer in an interview at the group's jungle base in Anlong Veng.	VERB
Everything I have done and contributed is first for the nation and the people and the race of Cambodia.	VERB
To the end, Pol Pot remained unrepentant, insisting that although he may have made mistakes in power, "My conscience is clear.	VERB
After Vietnam's troops ousted Pol Pot, he led a guerrilla resistance movement, with arms and assistance from China.	HIST
Later, his guerrilla group's clandestine radio station announced that Pol Pot had stepped down from active leadership of the Khmer Rouge, a claim that few outsiders believed.	HIST
As part of his "purification" campaign, foreigners were expelled from Cambodia, and anyone suspected of being educated, middle-class or linked to the old regime was tortured and executed.	HIST
Cambodia's current government -- led by Hun Sen, who was first installed in power by a Vietnamese invasion force in 1979 that ousted the Khmer Rouge -- has preserved evidence of Khmer Rouge atrocities at a schoolhouse called Tuol Sleng, whose classrooms had been converted into torture chambers under Pol Pot's rule.	HIST
It was 23 years ago this week that Pol Pot's guerrillas, wearing what became their trademark sandals, black pajama uniforms and red-checkered scarves, marched into Cambodia's battered capital and declared the start of "Year Zero," launching the most complete -- and brutal -- revolutionary transformations of a society ever attempted.	HIST
Taking a cue from China's revolutionary leader Mao Zedong, Pol Pot put into practice an even more extreme brand of Maoism, emptying the cities and forcing millions of Cambodians into labor camps, abolishing all forms of money and currency, shutting down schools and temples, and establishing an insidious informants' network in which even children were asked to spy on parents.	HIST

The Clinton administration and members of Congress yesterday vowed to pass strong anti-tobacco legislation even though the tobacco industry walked out of the legislative process last week and threatened to fight such a bill in court.	MAIN
Tobacco companies said last Wednesday that the June 1997 settlement proposal reached with state attorneys general was "dead" and they were abandoning attempts to craft legislation based on that deal.	VERB
Despite the walkout, "We will get bipartisan legislation this year," Health and Human Services Secretary Donna E. Shalala declared on NBC's "Meet the Press" yesterday.	VERB
There's no question about it because it's about public health.	VERB
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who sponsored the leading tobacco bill in Congress, said on CBS's "Face the Nation," "I'm optimistic that we can get this done by this summer.	VERB
" Noting that the White House and public health advocates have complained that his bill isn't tough enough while the industry has said it cannot live with his bill, McCain said, "I think we may be well-positioned.	VERB
Office of Management and Budget Director Franklin D. Raines, on ABC's "This Week," said it was regrettable that the industry withdrew from the legislative process.	VERB
We think they should come back, but no one is going to beg them," Raines said.	VERB
Representatives of the industry yesterday stepped up their attacks on the McCain bill, which they say is far more financially punishing to the industry and affords it less protection from lawsuits than the settlement tobacco companies reached last year.	VERB
The McCain bill would raise tobacco taxes by $ 1.10 per pack.	MAIN
But J. Philip Carlton, the lead industry attorney negotiating tobacco legislation with the White House and Congress, said that in practice, the McCain bill would increase per-pack cigarette costs to $ 5, which would lead to greatly increased black market sales of cigarettes and youths' "buying their cigarettes from drug dealers.	VERB
Carlton, who said some 2 million tobacco-related jobs would be endangered by the bill, declared that the industry would challenge the McCain bill in court if it is enacted.	VERB
The McCain bill would bankrupt tobacco companies, Philip Morris	VERB
senior vice president Steven C. Parrish warned on both "Meet the Press" and "Face the Nation."	VERB
"We cannot sit down and agree to do things that will end up putting us out of business," he said on NBC.	VERB
Some industry analysts, such as Martin Feldman of Smith Barney, have said the McCain bill would bankrupt tobacco companies, especially debt-ridden R. J. Reynolds.	VERB
But Jeffrey Harris, an MIT professor who studies the economics of the tobacco industry, disagreed.	VERB
So far I haven't been able to find a substantiation of why it would go bankrupt," Harris said in an inter view.	VERB
Any penalty imposed on the industry is going to be passed on to consumers in the form of higher prices.	VERB
Harris said the price increases would cause consumption and industry profitability to decline.	VERB
But he said the losses at each of the multinational tobacco conglomerates could be offset to some degree by their non-tobacco businesses and international sales of tobacco products.	VERB
What I haven't been able to figure out yet is how any analyst is somehow getting from moderate or even marked declines in domestic market profitability translating into bankruptcy," Harris said, suggesting that even Reynolds could deal with its debt load by the usual corporate belt-tightening tools, including lower dividend payouts to shareholders.	VERB
Representatives of the industry also were asked whether last week's walkout was a bluff or part of a long-term plan.	CIRC
A December 1997 memorandum prepared for the industry by a consultant -- the Bozell Sawyer Miller Group -- outlined an "exit" strategy for the industry.	CIRC
The memo called for an aggressive public education campaign in support of the 1997 deal, in which the industry agreed to pay $ 368 billion over 25 years and accept restrictions to curb youth smoking in return for protection against major lawsuits.	CIRC
But the memo suggested that if things did not go well for tobacco companies, the industry could argue that it "made a legitimate offer and the politicians played politics and made a mess of it.	CIRC
The McCain bill would increase costs to the industry by about 40 percent -- to $ 516 billion over the next 25 years -- and would not give the companies as much legal protection.	MAIN
Asked whether the industry was "just walking out in order to get a better deal," Carlton responded, "Absolutely not!	VERB
The process in Washington has gotten completely out of control," he said.	VERB
It's gone from what once was a noble purpose of reducing youth smoking and use of other tobacco products to a process now that has only to do with big taxes, big government and big brother.	VERB
And we're not bluffing.	VERB

Ann Eppard, who became an influential transportation lobbyist through her close alliance with House Transportation Chairman Bud Shuster (R-Pa.), was indicted by a federal grand jury yesterday for allegedly taking $ 230,000 in illegal payments to influence a massive Boston highway project while serving as Shuster's top aide.	MAIN
Eppard, 55, also was charged with embezzling $ 27,500 from Shuster's campaign committee -- she served as its assistant treasurer -- by allegedly arranging phony payments for a consultant who then returned the money to her through a relative.	MAIN
Since the Republican takeover of Congress in 1994, Shuster has become one of the most powerful House committee chairmen, overseeing the $ 217 billion highway bill.	CIRC
But at the same time, Shuster has been under investigation by the grand jury that indicted Eppard yesterday.	CIRC
He has also been the subject of a separate House Ethics Committee investigation of his dealings with Eppard after she became a lobbyist.	CIRC
U.S. Attorney Donald Stern in Boston said in a statement that no one else in Shuster's office participated in the seven-count indictment's list of crimes, which occurred before Eppard left Shuster's staff after the 1994 election, but he added that the investigation is continuing.	MAIN
In a statement yesterday, Shuster called Eppard "one of the finest, most decent and dedicated persons I have ever known," predicted she will be "totally vindicated" and termed the accusations "a political indictment, pure and simple.	VERB
Eppard's lawyer, Richard M. Egbert, said she "vehemently denies these allegations" and the grand jury probe "smacks of political motivation.	VERB
Eppard, who opened her own lobbying firm after the 1994 GOP victory that propelled Shuster to the chairmanship, has carved out a lucrative specialty as a transportation lobbyist representing clients before her former boss.	HIST
She also has continued to serve as a $ 3,000-a-month consultant for Shuster's campaign and tapped her lobbying clients to contribute to him.	HIST
Her lobbying firm, Ann Eppard Associates Ltd., reported billings of more than $ 1 million in 1996, the most recent year for which figures are available.	HIST
The indictment names both Eppard and Washington lobbyist, Vernon A. Clark, 68, charging them with conspiracy, mail fraud and wire fraud for a scheme allegedly dating back to 1989, when Eppard was Shuster's chief of staff.	MAIN
It alleges that Eppard received illegal gratuities from Clark and two Boston businessmen seeking her help in fighting plans to take their land for a multibillion-dollar underground highway project known as the Big Dig.	MAIN
Some of the gratuities were in the form of loans and disguised by being funneled to a relative of Eppard's, the indictment alleges.	MAIN
Although not named in the indictment, the relative is Eppard's son Ralph, who operates a Chrysler dealership on Maryland's Eastern Shore.	MAIN
Sources familiar with the probe have said Stern's office is investigating Shuster and has been trying to get Clark to provide evidence against the congressman and Eppard.	CIRC
Clark, who first met Shuster and Eppard years ago while lobbying for the billboard industry, was indicted in Boston on unrelated conspiracy and tax fraud charges last month.	CIRC
His attorney, Brendan Sullivan, declined to comment yesterday.	CIRC
In his statement, Stern said the alleged gratuities were not disclosed by Eppard, "often were disguised with phony documents, and represented a breach of public trust.	VERB
In a series of interviews for a Washington Post Magazine story published Sunday, Eppard portrayed herself as a woman without financial means beyond her congressional salary, which ranged from $ 67,000 to $ 110,000 in her last decade on the Hill.	VERB
She said she borrowed heavily from her government retirement fund to pay for her son's education.	VERB
In 1995, she told a reporter, "I'm a woman with five Visa cards.	VERB
In December 1994, she bought a waterfront town house in Alexandria for $ 823,000 after signing up a handful of well-paying clients.	HIST
Early last year, she traded up to a $ 1.4 million town house in the same complex.	HIST
By last year, her small lobbying shop was billing clients at the rate of $ 1.4 million a year.	HIST
The 31-page indictment outlined an alleged scheme that began in 1989 when Richard Goldberg, part-owner of a parking lot near Logan International Airport, and another businessman hired Clark to help them fight plans to take their land for the Big Dig.	MAIN
News accounts in Boston have identified Nicholas Contos, owner of a restaurant, as a cooperating witness in the inquiry who acknowledged making a loan to Ralph Eppard's auto dealership.	MAIN
According to the indictment, Goldberg paid $ 10,000 in consulting fees to Eppard's relative in 1990, and Clark paid the relative $ 15,000 in 1989 and 1991.	MAIN
In 1991, Goldberg and Contos reached separate deals on the land disputes.	MAIN
After that, Clark made $ 130,000 in favorable loans to Eppard's relative.	MAIN
The other businessman made an Eppard-solicited $ 75,000 loan to the relative in early 1992.	MAIN
That was about the time Ralph Eppard opened his car dealership.	MAIN
Eppard used her relative as a "straw" on one $ 30,000 loan from Clark she needed to finance the purchase of a town house in Alexandria in 1993, the indictment charges.	MAIN
Though the relative received much of the money, Eppard herself benefited because her son's dealership paid her $ 10,300 in the spring of 1993 and $ 100,000 from November 1994 to February 1995, and gave her free use of a car.	MAIN
The indictment also listed several "official acts" it said Eppard took on behalf of Clark and his clients from 1989 to 1994, when she left Shuster's staff.	MAIN
In late 1993, for example, it said Eppard spoke with a Conrail employee on behalf of Clark's unnamed client, Contos, about altering its 1991 land agreement with the restaurant owner.	MAIN
Shuster and Eppard met in Washington in 1969 when Shuster, a computer business executive, hired Eppard as his executive assistant.	HIST
Eppard followed Shuster into congressional politics in the early 1970s and emerged as a political force in Washington and Pennsylvania as his chief of staff, chief fund-raiser and political alter ego.	HIST
Although Shuster rarely attracted an opponent, he and Eppard raised and spent millions on activities that were tangentially related to campaigning, according to reviews of Federal Election Commission records.	HIST

In the struggle over who should rule Nigeria and control its treasure of oil, no place is more important -- or more on edge -- than this gritty port and the surrounding swamplands of the Niger River delta.	LEAD
It has been 28 months since Nigeria's military government executed writer Ken Saro-Wiwa and other dissidents to quash demands of local tribal communities, notably that they be allowed to share in billions of dollars of oil profits pumped from beneath the Nigerian delta.	PREV
Authorities keep tight military control on the delta, with frequent arrests of suspected dissidents.	MAIN
But opposition to the government and its oil policy is growing, especially among the young, according to residents and Nigerian political scholars.	MAIN
The government has long contained dissent by co-opting or intimidating tribal elders.	MAIN
But the delta's continued poverty and environmental problems have radicalized youths who "no longer recognize the elders' authority," said Chinedu Uchegbu, a researcher for the Port Harcourt-based Institute for Human Rights and Humanitarian Law.	MAIN
Protests and violence that began with Saro-Wiwa's Ogoni tribe continue to spread among other groups, crimping oil production.	MAIN
As Nigeria's military ruler, Gen. Sani Abacha, appears to be aiming to keep power despite his promise to permit elections and civilian rule by autumn, many Nigerians worry that political uncertainty could slide into civil upheaval.	MAIN
The worries appear deepest in the delta.	MAIN
Tangled in the conflict are oil companies -- including American firms Texaco Inc., Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp. -- that for years have been the government's business partners in pumping and selling the delta's oil.	CONS
Environmental and human rights groups have condemned oil companies -- particularly the British-Dutch giant, Royal Dutch/Shell Group of Cos. -- for environmental damage and accused them of complicity in the repression of dissidents, notably Ogonis.	VERB
Shell is trying to repair its image with a year-old human rights policy and funding for a broad development program for delta communities.	CIRC
But Nigerian scholars warn, and some company officials concede, that the effort can do little against political repression and poverty in the delta as long as the military continues to rule.	CIRC
Nigeria's oil industry boomed in the late 1960s.	HIST
The more money it earned, the more the military tightened its control, declaring in 1969 the government's sole ownership of mineral rights.	HIST
For decades, the delta's mostly rural farmers and fishermen have seen little benefit from tens of billions of dollars' worth of oil pumped out of their homelands.	HIST
In Nigeria's joint venture with Shell, which produces almost half the country's oil, the government takes about 70 percent of the sales price, Shell officials said.	HIST
Twenty percent pays production costs, Shell gets about 5 percent and minor partners share the rest.	HIST
Theoretically, the government is supposed to send 13 percent of gross oil revenues to develop "oil communities.	MAIN
But villages still lack electricity, running water, schools and clinics, and residents say the development money is being diverted to enrich government officials.	MAIN
The only safe thing to say is that money is flowing" for what are supposed to be development projects, a Shell official said.	VERB
We don't know what is flowing or to whom.	VERB
In 1990, the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People launched protests, demanding a share of royalties, a halt to oil spills and political autonomy.	HIST
The government responded brutally, with sweeping arrests and military raids on villages seen as dissident.	HIST
The protests radicalized and violence spread, in part, according to Nigerian scholars, because authorities used government-appointed tribal chiefs to encourage fighting among Ogonis and neighboring groups.	HIST
By 1993, Shell was forced to halt its operations in Ogoniland.	HIST
In 1994, after four Ogoni tribal leaders were slain, Abacha's government charged Saro-Wiwa and eight other Ogoni leaders with murder.	HIST
A special tribunal, widely criticized as unfair, convicted them of murder the following year and they were hanged.	HIST
The executions shattered the Ogoni protest campaign, forcing many of its leaders into exile.	HIST
In Ogoniland, a farming district east of Port Harcourt, a military unit, the Rivers State Internal Security Task Force, continues to rule.	PREV
In its latest crackdown, in January, it arrested at least 40 Ogonis, "not bringing charges [but] simply locking them away," said Uchegbu, the researcher.	PREV
Troops recently have raided churches, warning ministers to stop preaching about environmental or other political issues, he said.	MAIN
Nineteen Ogonis, imprisoned on the same murder charges made against Saro-Wiwa, have yet to be put on trial nearly four years after their arrests.	MAIN
Beyond Ogoniland, there has been "an unprecedented militarization of the [delta] region," Uchegbu said.	MAIN
He and others said a new anti-crime patrol by police and troops, called Operation Flush, is intimidating people in oil field villages where protests and violence have increased in the past year.	MAIN
Last year, hundreds of people died around the city of Warri when young men of the Ijaw and Itsekiri tribes battled for weeks with cutlasses and automatic weapons over control of a local government.	PREV
Government troops eventually regained control, but the dispute simmers.	PREV
Protesters routinely occupy and close oil platforms and other facilities to get government attention for their communities' grievances.	MAIN
Near Warri last year, protesters seized several pumping stations, holding 127 Shell workers hostage for several days.	PREV
In the Nembe district, young men often shut down Shell's oil pumps, as they did last month.	CIRC
At the same time, youths of the Koluama tribe occupied a Texaco offshore oil platform, demanding electricity, potable water and work for their communities.	CIRC
Such protests routinely crimp oil production by 5 percent to 10 percent.	CONS
Delta communities complain that continued oil spills foul their lands and waterways, but Shell says most leaks in recent years have been caused by people drilling or cutting into pipelines in hopes of getting compensation from the company for the spills.	VERB
Isaac Osuaka, an activist with a Nigerian group, Environmental Rights Action, said there is no way to verify Shell's account because government agencies are underequipped to monitor spills.	VERB
And this government is the majority owner" of the Shell-run production company, "so how independent do you think it will be?	VERB
he asked.	VERB
Following global protests about police brutality and the Ogoni leaders' executions, Shell has distanced itself from the government's use of force in the delta.	CONS
In earlier years, Shell worked closely with Nigerian security agencies, helping to fund the police that protected its facilities.	CONS
The company now resists calling for police help and "will not operate behind a security shield," said Victor Dania, Shell's public relations director in Port Harcourt.	VERB
Shell says it has "on many occasions publicly appealed for an early and fair trial" of the 19 Ogonis still held in connection with Saro-Wiwa's case, and Dania said the company has delivered that message privately "at the highest government levels.	VERB
But Dania conceded there has been "no public response" from Abacha's government.	VERB
Human rights groups say Shell is failing to exert the influence it holds as Nigeria's business partner in exporting nearly half of the country's oil.	VERB
They say Shell should publicize its position widely within Nigeria.	VERB
Given that oil provides the military government with 80 percent of its revenues, "I understand how people think we have a lot of influence over the government," said Rob Cornish, a senior Shell manager in Port Harcourt.	VERB
But we don't.	VERB

PARIS,	MAIN
April 3- PARIS,	MAIN
April 3 Jean-Marie Le Pen, the leader of France's far-right National Front party, today said he will appeal a court ruling denying him the right to hold office for two years, hinting at a government scheme to suppress his movement when it is showing its latest ripple of strength.	MAIN
It's only in totalitarian countries that courts are used to eliminate political adversaries of the powerful," Le Pen said the morning after a judge in Versailles ruled that Le Pen had shoved and insulted a Socialist candidate running against his daughter in last year's national legislative campaign.	VERB
The incident occurred in Mantes-la-Jolie, in a tightly-contested district near Paris, at a rally for Marie-Caroline Le Pen, the National Front candidate.	PREV
Witnesses and video footage indicated that Le Pen and his bodyguards had accosted a group of counter-demonstrators that included Annette Peulvast-Bergeal, the Socialist candidate and eventual victor in the district.	PREV
We've had it up to here with you," Le Pen told Peulvast-Bergeal, yanking the tricolor scarf around her neck and pushing her to the ground, shaking off efforts to break up the melee.	PREV
He and his bodyguards also punched and verbally abused other demonstrators, the court found.	PREV
Later, Le Pen, 69, a former paratroop commander in Algeria, was quoted as saying, "That made me feel younger.	PREV
The judge's ruling also stripped Le Pen of the right to vote for two years, fined him $ 3,800 and gave him a three-month suspended prison sentence.	PREV
The judgment could force Le Pen to give up his seat in the European Parliament and his place on the regional governing council in southern France, where the National Front's political base is.	PREV
Le Pen's status in the European Parliament may not protect him from prosecution by German authorities for another incident, in Munich last December, when Le Pen repeated a favored belief that the systematic extermination of 6 million Jews by the Nazis would be remembered as a "detail" of history.	PREV
The prosecutor's office in Munich asked the German government today to lift Le Pen's parliamentary immunity so it can prosecute him for inciting racial hatred.	PREV
The request is to be referred to the European Parliament, where Le Pen is one of 11 National Front members.	PREV
A French court in December fined Le Pen $ 50,000 for the Munich statement, which was nearly identical to one he made in France 11 years ago, for which he was fined $ 200,000.	PREV
He and other National Front leaders have been censured frequently by French courts for making antisemitic or racist remarks.	PREV
Le Pen's party, which these days draws 15 percent of the vote in French elections by espousing a credo of French nationalism and racial purity, has roiled the political waters here in recent weeks.	CIRC
The center-right presidents of three regional councils elected March 15 have wrested power from Socialists, the top vote-getters, by accepting the support of National Front councillors.	EVAL
The controversial deals were the first concrete admission by the French mainstream right that it may have to do political business with a party the French Establishment is loath even to recognize.	EVAL
President Jacques Chirac, responding to the crisis unleashed by the National Front's inroads on the regional level, is trying to formulate a "renewal" of the French political system and, less overtly, a rescue of the political right that includes his own battered party.	EVAL
Chirac's ongoing discussions with top political figures across most of the spectrum do not include any consultations with the National Front.	CIRC

TOKYO,	CONS
March 31- TOKYO, March 31	CONS
At Bic Camera, one of Japan's most popular consumer electronics chains, you can buy cameras, stereos and TV sets.	CONS
Starting Wednesday you can also buy yen.	CONS
In recent days, clerks in its stores have been learning to convert dollars to yen, and brushing up on their English.	CIRC
It's difficult to predict how many people we will get" for the foreign exchange business, said Tatsuhiko Asaka, an executive with Bic Camera.	VERB
Possibly 50 or 60 customers a day, but I don't really know.	VERB
Wednesday is the official start of "Big Bang," Japan's program to deregulate its strictly controlled financial markets by 2001.	MAIN
Bic Camera is just one of countless companies that will jump into businesses that for decades were closed to them by law.	MAIN
The aim is to open up the country to global capital, drawing in foreign banks and securities firms to transform Tokyo into a vibrant financial center to rival New York and London.	EVAL
At the same time, officials hope, it will strengthen Japan's many faltering financial institutions and help them stoke an economy that has been locked in stagnation for much of the '90s.	EVAL
Over time, the shifts could encourage Japan's people to send abroad more of the estimated $ 10 trillion that they hold in personal savings and financial assets, many analysts believe.	VERB
Masaru Takagi, an economics professor at Meiji University in Tokyo, predicts that in 10 years, about 10 percent of Japan's savings will be invested overseas.	VERB
Others believe things will move more slowly.	VERB
I don't expect to see a significant change as of April 1," said Mitsuru Saito, market economist for Sanwa Bank.	VERB
Over time, Japanese may begin to shift to overseas investments, Saito said, "but capital will not just be flowing one way.	VERB
It will be flowing into Japan as well as out.	VERB
Particularly now -- with more foreign interest in buying Japanese real estate and companies, foreign money could flow in.	VERB
The latest steps build on changes enacted last year that made it easier for Japanese to buy mutual funds, both foreign and domestic.	PREV
For instance, mutual fund companies were allowed to sell their products in banks.	PREV
In December, U.S. firm Fidelity Investments set up booths in numerous banks.	PREV
Analysts and bankers say sales have been slow, but Fidelity officials responded that they viewed the effort as an educational process.	PREV
Fidelity is launching its own phone sales operation Wednesday.	PREV
One reason many analysts predict a gradual change is the generally conservative investment attitude of the typical Japanese.	EVAL
In a report issued today, the Bank of Japan found that during October and December of last year, as the Japanese stock market headed down, investments in mutual funds fell by 16 percent and stock holdings fell by 22.6 percent, while cash on hand grew by 7.9 percent.	EVAL
Shozo Yamane, a 73-year-old sake brewer, said he is not interested in risky investments.	VERB
He said the stock and currency markets are a game "only younger people should play.	VERB
At my age, I cannot afford to make such a loss.	VERB
Investment advisers say that they have been surprised by the amount of interest from people in their twenties and thirties.	VERB
I'm thinking of dabbling in it myself," said Hiroko Ohta, a 28-year-old reporter for the popular weekly magazine Shukan Josei, which is aimed at the twentyish crowd.	VERB
The current issue strayed from its usual fare of articles on celebrity romances and modeling tips to feature a story by Ohta entitled: "Big Bang.	VERB
All It Takes Is 10 Minutes to Understand.	VERB
I'm always interested in doing something trendy, so now I am interested in mutual funds," Ohta said.	VERB
Fidelity, Merrill Lynch and other U.S. institutions have said they expect to do well in the emerging freewheeling environment.	VERB
Indeed, a survey by a major Japanese institution found that a significant percentage of people said they planned to increase transactions with Citibank, while cutting their business with many Japanese banks.	VERB
When asked what banks they intended to use most, Citibank ranked second, surpassed only by Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi.	VERB
The Big Bang phase that begins Wednesday will remove many foreign exchange controls, allowing money to flow more freely across Japan's borders.	CONS
It will lift controls on commissions on securities trades of more than $ 385,000, to encourage more competition.	CONS
It will let anyone get into the cur rency-changing business, with no license required.	CONS
If fully carried out over the coming three years, Big Bang would turn on its head many of the principles that guided Japan's postwar financial industry.	EVAL
For years, the government divided up the market, letting certain types of institutions do only certain types of business -- for instance, trust banks could manage pension funds, but ordinary banks could not.	EVAL
Countless types of simple transactions required a bureaucrat's stamp of approval.	EVAL
The government maintained that this ensured order and stability in a crucial economic sector that took in savings and provided capital for export industries.	CIRC
Now, the prevailing view is that the protections have created weakness and dependency, while foreign banks and brokerage houses have become lean and efficient.	CIRC
All over Japan, banks and finance companies are holding hundreds of billions of dollars of bad loans left from the collapse of the "bubble economy" of the 1980s.	CIRC
The government has been moving ahead with the changes despite concerns they will push some weak firms into collapse, saying that could be the price of future buoyancy.	CIRC
Already officials have shown they are willing to let the truly sick institutions die.	PREV
Yamaichi Securities Co., once Japan's largest securities house, officially closed its last offices today, four months after authorities revealed the severity of its losses.	PREV
Though officials use the term Big Bang, as if everything happens at once, they have in fact been nibbling away at many rules for years.	VERB
According to Clifford J. Shaw, president of Mercury Asset Management Japan Ltd., Japanese already can buy foreign stocks, foreign mutual funds and hold foreign currency deposits in Japan, in banks such as Citibank and Sanwa Bank.	VERB
For individual investors, the major change under the new rules will be freedom to open bank accounts overseas without government approval, eliminating paperwork and hassles.	VERB
Analysts here say that some Japanese will shift funds to foreign banks to take advantage of higher interest rates, but that the numbers probably will be limited because of the potential for foreign-currency losses if the value of the yen suddenly were to rise.	VERB
It's also possible money will flow overseas to evade taxes," Inoue said.	VERB
For institutional investors, the major change will be an end to restrictions on how much domestic pension funds must invest in Japanese markets.	VERB
For the past two years, the Japanese government has permitted Japanese pension funds to apply for exemptions from those restrictions on a case-by-case basis, Shaw said.	VERB
So "I don't see this as being a sort of crash, bang, wallop thing, but rather a steady burn," he said.	VERB
Another reform taking effect on Wednesday will allow any company and individual to make foreign exchange transactions.	EVAL
News media have predicted that convenience stores and a host of other retailers would plunge into this business.	EVAL
But so far, no convenience store has stepped forward.	EVAL
I think most places are taking a wait-and-see attitude," said Asaka of Bic Camera, one of the few retailers with plans to try the currency business.	VERB

UNITED NATIONS- UNITED NATIONS	LEAD
When an ambassadorial committee considering how to overhaul the United Nations meets here Monday, Secretary General Kofi Annan will introduce an important new player in the reform process.	LEAD
She is Louise Frechette, a veteran Canadian diplomat chosen by Annan to be the world body's first deputy secretary general.	LEAD
Frechette, 51, has been at work in the 38th-floor executive offices of the secretariat for more than a month.	CIRC
But except for a couple of brief forays into the public eye -- including taking over in Annan's absence two weeks ago to deliver a sharp protest to the Congolese ambassador over his government's mistreatment of a U.N. human rights official -- she has remained in the background.	CIRC
It is the secretary general, with his concerns about international peace and security, who must be out front in dealing with the individual member states and the Security Council, who handles the politics, the negotiating, the travel," she said in an interview.	VERB
My job is to deal with the inside of the organization -- to get this big, often unwieldly machine to respond to his orders and to see to it that what we promise, we will do.	VERB
A big part of what Frechette calls "the frequently tedious tasks of implementation" will involve her oversight of the reforms that Annan has staked out as the cornerstone of his administration.	EXPE
He took office a year ago with a pledge to reshape the organization to cope with the challenges of a new century, and on Monday he will announce that he is putting Frechette in charge of the reform program.	EXPE
High on the list of his proposed changes was a promise to increase greatly the number of women in top U.N. policy and management posts.	PREV
Annan's initial preference for the deputy secretary general job was widely thought to be Sadako Ogata of Japan, the U.N. high commissioner for refugees.	PREV
When she opted to stay in that job, he turned to Frechette, a former Canadian ambassador to the U.N. who before returning here was Canada's deputy defense minister.	PREV
Joining Ogata, former Ireland president Mary Robinson, chosen by Annan to head the U.N. human rights commission, and former Norwegian prime minister Gro Bruntland Harland, who with Annan's support recently was elected head of the World Health Organization, Frechette is part of the most visible and influential presence that women have had in the 52-year history of the United Nations.	CIRC
She says she intends to put a high priority on ensuring that it is not a fleeting phenomenon.	CIRC
Kofi is very anxious that we send a powerful message to managers that we need to create a pool of qualified women at all levels and to make full use of what they offer," she said.	VERB
It's not just a question of appointing women who have had distinguished careers elsewhere.	VERB
I'm going to work on our personnel system to ensure that it gives women who join as junior officers the chance to rise on the same terms as men.	VERB
Ofall the women now holding top-level U.N. posts, Frechette has the job description with the most far-ranging responsibilities.	CIRC
She will be in charge of reform issues, will be the equivalent of a chief of staff for the cabinet-style management being instituted by Annan, and, since she has to fill in for the secretary general during his travels, she has to be informed about everything on the U.N. agenda.	CIRC
I don't think I'll be traveling very much," she said.	VERB
Mostly I won't be all that visible from day to day.	VERB
My place is to stay behind my desk and make sure that things happen.	VERB
While it is too early to make any judgments about whether she will succeed, U.N. diplomats and bureaucrats agree that her background gives cause for optimism.	EVAL
Few people know the inner workings of the United Nations as well as Frechette, who first came here in the 1970s as a junior member of the Canadian delegation and who returned after an extensive diplomatic career to serve as Canada's ambassador from 1992 through 1995.	EVAL
Among her colleagues at the time was the then-U.S. ambassador, Madeleine K. Albright, and the two collaborated closely during the 1994 crisis over Haiti in creating a peacekeeping operation to accompany the return from exile of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide.	HIST
When Frechette was picked to be deputy secretary general, a spokesman for Albright, now secretary of state, said she regarded Frechette as one of the finest diplomats she had encountered and a "perfect choice" for the post.	HIST
Actually, what has helped me the most was not my previous U.N. experience but my three years at the Defense Department in Canada," Frechette noted.	VERB
The challenge there was making a big organization produce and perform, and that's what I'm expected to do here.	VERB
That experience made me better prepared than if I had come straight from being an ambassador.	VERB
One thing Frechette particularly likes in her change of jobs is the chance to live in New York again.	VERB
No offense to Ottawa," she says, "but I'm a real fan of New York.	VERB
I think it was most fortuitous that the U.N. founding fathers picked the city rather than some suburb or small town.	VERB
You step out on a New York street, and your mind is instantly stimulated by being in touch with all that energy.	VERB
I just hope that my job gives me some time now and then to enjoy it.	VERB

President Clinton yesterday nominated a University of New Mexico administrator to take over the contentious post of commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, and the nomination immediately drew hints of opposition from some members of the Senate.	MAIN
Clinton selected Jane E. Henney, vice president for health sciences at the University of New Mexico, a doctor and cancer specialist who has worked at the National Cancer Institute and served as a deputy to then-FDA Commissioner David A. Kessler from 1992 to 1994.	MAIN
If confirmed, Henney, 51, would be the first woman to become FDA commissioner.	CONS
Clinton urged quick Senate action on the long-awaited nomination, saying that senators "will conclude that she is extremely well qualified to serve as commissioner as the agency prepares itself to meet the challenges of the 21st century.	VERB
FDA officials said that Henney would not be available for comment until the confirmation process is complete.	VERB
Through a spokeswoman, Henney said: "There is no greater honor than to be asked to return to public service and to lead the FDA, an agency that plays such a vital role in protecting and promoting the health of the American people.	VERB
The nomination comes as the FDA faces a number of challenges.	EVAL
The agency, which regulates 25 cents of every dollar consumers spend, is more prominent than ever.	EVAL
It bears responsibility for ensuring that drugs are safe and effective, and has a major role in maintaining the safety of foods and the blood supply.	CIRC
In addition, the agency faces an often-hostile Congress, which last year passed extensive FDA reform legislation.	CIRC
That alone presents a daunting task for the agency, which must now produce a shelf of new regulations, "guidances" and other publications to fulfill the mandates of the law.	EXPE
Kessler yesterday called Henney "one of the best physician-managers I know.	VERB
She's her own person and will do a wonderful, do a terrific job.	VERB
Since Kessler left the agency more than a year ago to head the Yale University Medical School, the FDA has been run by its lead deputy commissioner, Michael Friedman.	CIRC
Representatives of industries FDA regulates said yesterday that they knew little about Henney but hoped to learn more during the confirmation process.	VERB
This is as important a nomination as the FDA has ever had in its history," said Carl Feldbaum, head of the Biotechnology Industries Association.	VERB
Any new commissioner has to plot a careful middle course, Feldbaum said, between "people in the agency who want no change or slow change" and some people in industry and Congress "who think any change is beneficial.	VERB
Senators said they will vet Henney carefully.	VERB
Sen. James M. Jeffords (R-Vt.), who chairs the Labor and Human Resources Committee, which will consider the nomination, said: "It is not going to be a quick one," because senators have already raised questions about the nominee.	VERB
He predicted that hearings are unlikely before the end of July and "probably much later.	VERB
Aides to several Republican senators wanted to know if Henney played a role in the agency's promotion of RU-486, the French "abortion pill.	VERB
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-Mass.), who championed Henney's nomination, said, "She knows the issues, she knows the agency, and she's a proven leader.	VERB
While Kennedy made no reference to controversy over the nomination, a Democratic staffer acknowledged, "Anyone who follows in Dr. Kessler's footsteps is going to get a lot of scrutiny.	VERB
Another source said that senators know little about her but that her service under Kessler and strong support from Kennedy may raise concerns among some Republicans.	VERB
Kessler brought an unusually high profile to the post with his agenda, which included asserting FDA authority over tobacco for the first time.	PREV
But he also became a symbol of over-aggressive government for some members of Congress because of some of his actions, such as his attempt to crack down on health claims made for foods and nutritional supplements.	PREV
A senior administration official predicted that Henney would ultimately gain confirmation in the Senate: "She comes to this job with a broad base of support.	VERB
She's a lot more qualified than anyone who's ever taken the job before," including Kessler, said a senior FDA official.	VERB
Henney would bring strong skills to such a task, having had much to do with the FDA's implementation of landmark 1992 legislation that set up a user fee system that dramatically shortened review times of new drugs, officials said.	EVAL

Monica S. Lewinsky has agreed to provide independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr with information about her book purchases, resolving a First Amendment dispute between Starr and the Dupont Circle bookstore Kramerbooks.	MAIN
We've accomplished what we set out to do, which is protect the rights of privacy of our customers," said Bill Kramer, co-owner of the popular store and cafe.	VERB
The former White House intern, the central figure in Starr's investigation of President Clinton, has previously made cooperative gestures toward Starr, including allowing her apartment to be searched and providing handwriting samples.	PREV
In late March, Starr subpoenaed Kramerbooks and the Georgetown outlet of the Barnes & Noble chain, asking for details about at least 16 purchases made by Lewinsky.	CIRC
The former intern reportedly told her one-time friend Linda R. Tripp that she gave Clinton the phone-sex novel "Vox," and Starr's team was seeking to corroborate that statement.	CIRC
On April 6, Lewinsky lawyer Nathaniel H. Speights told U.S. District Court Judge Norma Holloway Johnson that his client would be willing to give the information to Starr.	CIRC
In March, April, May, it was crystal clear that Lewinsky's position was the same: She was willing to give the information," said Kramerbooks lawyer Carol O'Riordan.	VERB
And it was crystal clear to my co-counsel and myself that [Starr] was refusing to go and ask for it.	VERB
Johnson ruled in early April that Starr had to show a "compelling need" for the information before he violated the First Amendment rights of Lewinsky and the bookstores.	PREV
This led to the Barnes & Noble subpoena being dropped and the Kramerbooks subpoena narrowed.	PREV
Kramer had been planning an appeal when yesterday's deal was worked out.	PREV
This agreement allows us to avoid the time and expense of the appeal," Kramer said.	VERB
Kramerbooks' challenge to Starr drew support from a wide range of retailing, publishing and free speech sources.	VERB
Yesterday, those groups pronounced themselves pleased with the case's resolution.	VERB
From the beginning we believed the subpoena was an example of gross prosecutorial overreaching that seriously threatened core First Amendment values," said Louis Bograd of the American Civil Liberties Union.	VERB
We've established an important precedent that will stop prosecutors from fishing around in bookstore records just because they want to," said Chris Finan, president of the American Booksellers Foundation for Free Expression.	VERB
If Kramerbooks' appeal had gone forward, there was some doubt it would have won.	VERB
Establishing a legal basis for bookstores' privilege would have been a tough sell," said Robert O'Neil, a University of Virginia law professor.	VERB
He noted that there was no constitutional protection for journalists seeking to withhold identity of sources.	VERB
Still, O'Neil said, "the next time a grand jury or a prosecutor seeks to compel such information from a bookseller, he can look back and cite this as a time when the customer turned out not only to be the appropriate source for the information, but an entirely adequate one.	VERB
In another legal battle over evidence, the Justice Department filed the final brief in its effort to persuade the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit to stop Starr from bringing Secret Service officers before a grand jury.	MAIN
The Justice Department is appealing a lower court ruling that the Secret Service enjoys no legal right of confidentiality.	MAIN

Berkshire Hathaway Inc., the investment holding company controlled by billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett, yesterday agreed to pay $ 22 billion in stock for General Re Corp., the largest reinsurer in the nation.	MAIN
The purchase of Gen Re would broaden Buffett's reach in the insurance industry and add about $ 24 billion to Berkshire's existing holdings of investment securities, valued at $ 46 billion at year-end 1997.	CONS
For Gen Re, the deal affords access to a huge pool of capital and income from its parent that will allow it to maintain more stable earnings and have greater discretion over how to invest its excess cash.	CONS
Buffett said the companies will have a net worth of $ 56 billion, greater than any U.S. company and second only to Royal Dutch/Shell Group among global companies.	EVAL
Buffett said Gen Re will operate as an independent unit of Berkshire Hathaway.	VERB
Ron Ferguson, Gen Re's chief executive, will join the Berkshire board.	VERB
In addition to its size, the deal is noteworthy because Buffett is using Berkshire Hathaway stock as currency, which he prefers to avoid.	EVAL
Under terms of the agreement, General Re shareholders can choose either 0.0035 shares of Berkshire's Class A shares, or 0.105 of the Class B shares for each share of Stamford, Conn.-based Gen Re.	MAIN
Berkshire Hathaway valued the deal at $ 22 billion, based on Thursday's closing prices, which is approximately $ 276.50 for each share of Gen Re.	MAIN
That's a premium of 23 percent to Gen Re's Thursday close of $ 224.125 on the New York Stock Exchange.	MAIN
We would rather use cash but most of the time sellers don't let us do it," Buffett said at a news conference.	VERB
That's because cash deals usually mean the seller must pay taxes, whereas all-stock transactions are commonly tax-free.	VERB
Even though Buffett has recently made huge forays into the markets for silver and government bonds, he suggested that his latest move should not be read as any kind of market signal.	VERB
And he added that although he does not like to make his investments using Berkshire Hathaway stock, his latest deal should not be read as any comment on whether he thinks Berkshire Hathaway's stock is at a peak.	VERB
It is not a market call," Buffett said.	VERB
Buffett, who owns huge stakes in such well-known companies as American Express Co. and Coca-Cola Co. as well as The Washington Post Co., has long fancied the insurance industry for its "float" -- the excess money held against future claims but which can be invested to earn current income.	EVAL
Two years ago, Buffett bought out minority shareholders in Geico Corp. of Chevy Chase, and he also has a subsidiary, National Indemnity, that is a player in the commercial insurance market.	PREV
Berkshire Hathaway's reinsurance division also has been a specialty player in the reinsurance market; its huge supply of capital has allowed it to underwrite what are termed "catastrophic" risks, such as insurance against natural disasters.	CIRC
But General Re is considered the crown jewel of the reinsurance industry and has itself been seen as an industry consolidator.	EVAL
In 1994, it acquired majority control in Cologne Re of Germany.	HIST
The purchase of Gen Re also appears to fit the criteria that Buffett has set down over the years for acquisitions: The companies must be simple, management must be in place, and the businesses must generate good returns with minimal debt.	EVAL
Buffett also said he favors acquisitions of at least $ 5 billion in value.	EVAL
Over the years, Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway has been one of the best performing stocks, but its high price and thin trading have kept it out of the reach of many investors.	CIRC
Yesterday, Buffett said the purchase of Gen Re would add liquidity to Berkshire stock and draw more interest from the institutional investment community.	CONS
Reinsurers insure insurance companies, in essence protecting the primary carriers against losses greater than they can stomach themselves.	EVAL
While the reinsurance market has largely been flat of late, those companies who are in it have been consolidating as the size of the risks to be covered has gotten larger.	EVAL
By joining forces with Berkshire, General Re will greatly expand its capital surplus -- the money that stands behind any future claims -- and be able to underwrite even larger risks.	CONS
Most important, it will be able to hold on to more of the risk and will not have to "lay off" portions of risks that are too big for any one company to handle.	CONS

Democratic contributor Johnny Chung has told Justice Department investigators that top Democratic National Committee officials knowingly solicited and accepted improper donations from him, according to sources familiar with his account.	MAIN
Chung, as part of a plea bargain deal with the department, has claimed that then-DNC finance director Richard Sullivan personally asked him for a $ 125,000 donation in April 1995, the sources said.	MAIN
Sullivan took the money despite having previously voiced suspicions that Chung was acting as a conduit for illegal contributions from Chinese business executives, they added.	MAIN
Sullivan's lawyer said he denies Chung's account of their dealings.	VERB
Chung's accusations come as the Justice Department's 19-month investigation of 1996 campaign fund-raising enters what law enforcement sources characterized as a new phase.	CIRC
Having brought charges this spring against four contributors who allegedly funneled illegal foreign funds to Democrats, the task force handling the campaign probe is now determining whether there is sufficient evidence to charge any of the DNC officials or Clinton-Gore campaign operatives who accepted the money.	CIRC
The task force is moving to another stage that is going to involve people in responsible positions in campaign fund-raising and whether those people should be charged," an official close to the investigation said.	VERB
But Chung's allegations have not persuaded investigators to designate Sullivan or any other DNC official as a target of the probe, a formal step that can be a prelude to an indictment, and the task force still hopes that other witnesses will agree to cooperate, including possibly Sullivan himself, according to sources close to the inquiry.	CONS
Justice Department officials emphasized that there is a considerable distance between a witness's allegation that an individual should have known an action was wrong and establishing criminal intent to support an indictment.	EVAL
Chung, a Los Angeles businessman, became the task force's first major cooperating witness in March as part of an agreement in which he pleaded guilty to orchestrating an illegal "straw donor" scheme to give money to the 1996 Clinton-Gore reelection campaign.	CIRC
Chung provided the task force with its first explicit account of foreign funds coming into the 1996 campaign, telling investigators that a Chinese aerospace executive gave him $ 300,000 for political contributions.	CIRC
Johnny Chung is fully cooperating with the entire probe and that includes providing details of his interaction with DNC officials, including Richard Sullivan, his primary point of contact there," said Brian Sun, Chung's attorney.	VERB
Overall, the DNC took $ 366,000 from Chung in 1995 and 1996.	PREV
All of that money was eventually returned after the election when the committee determined it had "insufficient information" about its origins.	PREV
Chung, who visited the White House at least 49 times, is perhaps best known for an incident that was the subject of extensive congressional testimony in which he offered to make a $ 50,000 contribution to the DNC if he could bring five Chinese businessmen to a March 11, 1995, presidential radio address.	PREV
Sullivan has testified that he rejected the offer.	PREV
Instead, Chung sought help from aides to Hillary Rodham Clinton in gaining access to the radio address and the DNC eventually accepted the money.	PREV
In congressional testimony last summer, Sullivan said he had grown suspicious because "Johnny had a very nervous kind of an outward, aggressive personality," and that he eventually concluded that the money Chung was offering to contribute was not his own but came from the Chinese business executives.	PREV
Sullivan's attorney, Bob Bauer, said, "Richard's testimony, which is fully corroborated, is clear that he was concerned with the way Chung operated and on that basis he would not accept Chung's offer of money as the price of admission to a presidential radio address or for any number of other initiatives that Chung was interested in.	VERB
According to Chung, however, Sullivan contacted Chung less than a month later and solicited $ 125,000 from him for an April 8, 1995, fund-raiser at the home of director Steven Spielberg.	MAIN
Sullivan has denied to investigators that he asked Chung for the donation, although he has acknowledged that he was involved in accepting the funds at the DNC, according to sources familiar with the inquiry.	MAIN
Chung has also told Justice Department investigators, the sources said, that DNC and Clinton-Gore officials were aware that he was bringing foreign guests to a September 1995 Los Angeles fund-raising dinner when he arrived with an entourage of 20 people.	CIRC
At the event, campaign officials rejected Chung's $ 20,000 check because contributions to the dinner were subject to a legal limit of $ 1,000 per person.	MAIN
The following day Chung had 20 friends and employees write individual $ 1,000 checks, which were accepted by the campaign.	MAIN
Chung later reimbursed the check-writers in what he acknowledged in his guilty plea was an illegal scheme to evade federal contribution limits.	MAIN
Chung claims it was transparent on that occasion and	VERB
virtually every other that he was producing contributions on behalf of foreign nationals who could not legally give to political campaigns," said a source familiar with Chung's statements to investigators.	VERB
With the task force's chief prosecutor, Chuck LaBella, preparing to leave his post this summer, Justice Department officials expect that decisions will be made in coming weeks on whether to press charges against DNC and Clinton-Gore officials who accepted illegal foreign funds.	CONS

AT&T Corp. is selling its electronic paging business to Alexandria-based paging giant Metrocall Inc. for $ 205 million in stock and cash, company sources said last night.	MAIN
The move marks AT&T's exit from the paging business, freeing the company to focus its wireless activities on its more profitable cellular telephone business.	EVAL
It also would help, albeit in a small way, to provide the company with some of the cash it needs to buy cable giant Tele-Communications Inc.	EVAL
The deal is the latest in a string of acquisitions for Metrocall, the nation's second-largest paging company with 4.1 million subscribers.	CIRC
Metrocall employs 3,000 people, including 605 in the Washington area.	CIRC
Metrocall will pay $ 110 million in cash and $ 95 million in preferred shares for AT&T's paging services, Metrocall officials said.	MAIN
William L. Collins III, president and chief executive of Metrocall, said the two companies were in talks last fall, but Metrocall ended discussions because AT&T's price was too high.	PREV
As part of the deal, Metrocall gets a nationwide two-way paging license for which AT&T paid $ 80 million at a federal auction in 1994, though AT&T never developed the two-way paging service.	MAIN
Metrocall also gets a five-year exclusive agreement to sell its paging products in AT&T Wireless retail stores under its own brand name.	MAIN
AT&T is pleased that the advanced messaging division will be an important part of Metrocall's overall strategy," said Dan Sommers, AT&T's chief financial officer.	VERB
AT&T acquired its advanced messaging division, which employees 1,000 people, as part of its $ 11.5 billion purchase of McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. in 1995.	PREV
The paging deal furthers an acquisition frenzy that has characterized the industry over the past several years.	EVAL
Large paging companies, seeking to reduce costs and enhance profitability, typically buy out smaller ones and take on their customers.	EVAL
Metrocall has led that trend, making purchases of a half-dozen paging companies in the past few years, including rival ProNet Inc. last year.	CIRC
Analysts expressed concern that AT&T would have to spend too much money to upgrade TCI's cable systems to make them capable of handling telephone and Internet service.	EXPE
Selling off AT&T's paging unit is one of a series of moves made by the company's new chairman, C. Michael Armstrong, to streamline the nation's largest phone company and move it into new profit areas.	CIRC
AT&T shares took a beating last week after the company announced plans to buy TCI for $ 48 billion in stock and assumed debt	CIRC
With 4.1 million subscribers as of March 31, Metrocall ranks behind Paging Network of Plano,	EVAL
, among the nation's largest paging companies.	EVAL
With 1.2 million subscribers, AT&T's paging operations would rank 10th in the nation if it were a stand-alone operation.	EVAL
Bulking up has been a costly strategy for Metrocall, however.	EVAL
The company reported a net loss of $ 52.5 million in 1997 and lost $ 28.2 million its first quarter of 1998, which was more than double the loss posted a year earlier.	EVAL
Company officials attributed the losses to the cost of Metrocall's acquisition strategy.	EVAL
The company's sales grew 59 percent in the first quarter, to $ 96.3 million.	EVAL
Still, the AT&T deal might not be enough to maintain Metrocall's No. 2 position for long.	EVAL
Arch Communications Group Inc., the third largest paging company with 4 million subscribers, recently announced that it was in talks to buy rival MobileMedia Corp., which filed for bankruptcy protection more than a year ago.	EVAL
MobileMedia is the fourth-largest company, with 3.3 million customers.	EVAL

Internet related stocks soared today after the NBC television network and Compaq Computer Corp. announced deals that will give them greater links to the global computer network.	MAIN
NBC's decision to buy up to 60 percent of Cnet Inc.'s Snap online service, which helps people find information on the Internet, sent Cnet's stock up by more than a third.	CONS
Compaq, meanwhile, announced that its newest line of personal computers would provide consumers with easy access to America Online Inc.'s computer online service and to a personalized Web page run by Yahoo Inc.'s online search service.	MAIN
The deals spurred a strong rally for a variety of Internet-related stocks, even though the rest of the market closed mixed for the day.	CONS
Analysts said that investors were betting that other major computer and media companies will be scrambling to snatch up other Internet savvy companies in the coming months as the race to capture a share of the network's market accelerates.	EXPE
It was lackluster for the rest of the world.	VERB
But for us, it was great," said Alan Braverman, an Internet analyst for securities firm Credit Suisse First Boston.	VERB
It's a validation.	VERB
Yahoo was among the leaders, rising $ 8.50 to $ 117.87 1/2 in part because investors believe that its new ties to Compaq will help guarantee that it will remain one of the Internet's central players for the foreseeable future.	CONS
Dulles-based America Online rose $ 3.87 1/2 to $ 88.62 1/2, a strong performance helped by J.P. Morgan & Co.'s decision to give the company a "buy" rating and set its 12-month price target at $ 110.	CONS
Infoseek Corp. rose $ 4 to $ 27.25, and Lycos Inc. rose $ 3.31 1/4 to $ 53.56 1/4 after it received a patent for its "spider" technology, another method for searching the Internet's World Wide Web.	CONS
Netscape Communications Corp., which develops Web browser software, rose $ 1.37 1/2 to $ 24.18 3/4.	CONS
Amazon.com, the Internet bookseller, rose $ 5 to $ 51.25.	CONS
Meanwhile, Inktomi Corp., which runs an Internet search engine and makes software to reduce Internet congestion, raised $ 40.6 million in a larger-than-expected initial stock sale, according to Bloomberg News.	CONS
The San Mateo, Calif., company sold 2.3 million shares, an 11 percent stake, at $ 18 each, the top of the $ 16-to-$ 18 expected range set by lead underwriter Goldman Sachs & Co.	CONS
Cnet stock rose $ 12.12 1/2 to $ 45.12 1/2.	CONS
In the Cnet deal, NBC agreed to pay $ 38 million for Snap, a World Wide Web site that features such information as news, sports scores and entertainment listings and helps computer users find information elsewhere.	MAIN
NBC also said it will pay $ 26 million for a 5 percent share in Cnet, which operates a variety of other Internet services.	MAIN
It convinced investors [that] other large media companies, over time, will need to follow suit," said Lise Buyer, director of Internet and new media research for Deutsche Bank Securities Technology Group.	VERB
That would mean that firms such as Infoseek and Lycos, which already have a head start, suddenly become more valuable because of today's deals, she said.	VERB
If Compaq can do this sort of deal with Yahoo, why can't Hewlett-Packard follow suit?	VERB
she said.	VERB
The Compaq deal is a big deal.	VERB

As Monica S. Lewinsky's new lawyers began laying the groundwork for renewed immunity negotiations with prosecutors, independent counsel Kenneth W. Starr yesterday prepared to bring two reluctant witnesses before the grand jury, according to people close to the investigation.	LEAD
White House communications adviser Sidney Blumenthal has been ordered to appear this afternoon, three days after President Clinton dropped the executive privilege claim that interrupted Blumenthal's previous appearance.	MAIN
Francis D. Carter, who as Lewinsky's first lawyer helped her draft an affidavit denying a sexual relationship with Clinton, also has been summoned to testify as early as today.	MAIN
While some lawyers involved in the case doubt that either has information central to the investigation into whether Clinton orchestrated an illegal coverup of an affair with Lewinsky, Starr had to fight repeated court battles to obtain their testimony.	PREV
A federal judge rejected Clinton's assertion that executive privilege prevented Starr from asking Blumenthal about certain White House conversations and likewise dismissed Carter's claim of attorney-client privilege.	PREV
An appeal in Carter's case was unsuccessful, sources said.	PREV
I intend to answer all the questions put to me completely and truthfully," Blumenthal said yesterday.	VERB
Two other privilege battles will be taken up today when the Supreme Court meets privately to discuss whether to grant Starr's request for emergency consideration of whether he can question White House lawyers and Secret Service officers.	CIRC
Starr has argued that a speedy resolution to his probe is so vital to the national interest that the justices should take the rare step of bypassing the appeals court and hear both disputes immediately before its summer break.	VERB
The White House contends that the attorney-client issue, at least, should go through the normal process.	VERB
To grant such an expedited appeal, it would take the votes of five of the nine justices, instead of the usual four.	CIRC
Many lawyers suggested the court was unlikely to short-circuit the process, especially since Clinton on Monday dropped the executive privilege claim that once raised a constitutional issue.	CIRC
The justices did not even ask the Justice Department, which is representing the Secret Service, for its opinion about whether an expedited hearing was warranted.	CIRC
Another related issue landed at the high court yesterday as well.	PREV
A consortium of news organizations, including The Washington Post, asked the court to overrule an appeals court decision barring public access to judicial hearings arising out of the Starr probe.	PREV
Most proceedings connected to the Lewinsky matter have been conducted under seal because they involve a secret grand jury investigation, although Chief U.S. District Judge Norma Holloway Johnson in recent weeks has released several redacted versions of transcripts, briefs and rulings.	CIRC
Even as the investigation marched on, Lewinsky's new legal team was settling in.	MAIN
A day after the former White House intern dismissed controversial lawyer William H. Ginsburg, the new attorneys spent the day behind closed doors educating themselves about the case, reading voluminous files and meeting with their client and the remaining member of her previous legal team, Nathaniel H. Speights.	MAIN
The new lawyers, Plato Cacheris and Jacob A. Stein, quietly visited Starr's office Tuesday for an introductory meeting with prosecutors.	PREV
Starr sent a note welcoming them to the case, although they are hardly strangers to the independent counsel since all three travel in the same high-powered legal circles.	PREV
Their hiring was intended to resurrect long-abandoned talks with prosecutors about a deal that would shield Lewinsky from prosecution in exchange for her testimony.	EVAL
But for all of the anticipation surrounding the new team's abrupt entry, several lawyers close to the case cautioned that it still may be weeks before any agreement.	VERB
Among other things, the new lawyers may push to hear the 20 hours of tapes in which Lewinsky was secretly recorded talking about having an affair with Clinton.	VERB
Starr refused similar requests by Ginsburg.	VERB
Staff writer Susan Schmidt contributed to this report.	VERB

Four days after police told him his political rights had been restored, the most senior Chinese Communist Party official jailed for political reasons in two decades launched a broadside tonight against the party for failing to undertake significant political reform.	LEAD
In an interview, Bao Tong, who was arrested May 28, 1989 -- just days before soldiers and tanks crushed student-led protests in Beijing's Tiananmen Square -- challenged Communist Party officials to prove their commitment to the rule of law by letting him speak his mind after spending seven years in prison and two more under restrictions.	MAIN
My goal is to be a very good Chinese citizen, a Chinese citizen with the right to speak his mind," said Bao, 65, who was chief of staff, speech writer and senior political adviser for ousted Premier and Communist Party chief Zhao Ziyang.	VERB
I am ready to take my ideas and speak out about them.	VERB
Free speech is a very important contribution to building China, and I believe my freedom of speech will be protected by law and by the government.	VERB
Bao, who was made a scapegoat for the upheaval that threatened the control of the Communist Party, said, "I want to test their promises.	VERB
So if I meet any problems, it shows their promises are fake.	VERB
But in a note of realism about government security surveillance and the cautious pace of political change in China, Bao said, "I hope that my telephone works for a while.	VERB
I hope that my family has no problems.	VERB
I hope that I don't have an accident.	VERB
Though less well known internationally than recently released dissidents like student leader Wang Dan, who led protests for democracy in 1989, or veteran dissident Wei Jingsheng, Bao has much more influence in China, especially within the top ranks of the ruling Communist Party.	HIST
He was a member of the party's powerful organization department in the 1950s and 1960s, jailed and sent to the countryside during the Cultural Revolution of 1966-76, and then returned to the core of people around senior leader Deng Xiaoping in 1977 when China's economic reform period began.	HIST
He later became a member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party and was the point man for political and economic reforms under Zhao that deemphasized ideology and were aimed at transforming China's centrally planned economy into one more responsive to market forces.	HIST
I am still proud that I was a party member," Bao said, "but the Chinese Communist Party has done a lot of stupid things.	VERB
His comments come amid signs that influential party members are debating political reform more openly than at any time since the 1989 crackdown.	EVAL
Some voices outside the party also are calling for a reevaluation of the party's verdict on the suppression of the 1989 demonstrations, which ended in the deaths of hundreds of civilians.	EVAL
Bao was riding on a train back to Beijing from the countryside in 1977 when he heard a radio broadcast that Deng had been rehabilitated.	VERB
I had a great deal of hope in Deng," Bao recalled tonight.	VERB
I thought in the beginning he could become a great man in Chinese history.	VERB
Unfortunately, during June 4 [1989], he blackened his own face.	VERB
No one did this to him.	VERB
He was too powerful.	VERB
He did it to himself.	VERB
That, I think, is a tragedy for him.	VERB
Bao blamed the Communist Party for thinking it could undertake economic reforms without significant political reforms.	CIRC
He said that the party should have embraced political change at the time of the Democracy Wall movement in 1979.	CIRC
Instead Deng used the movement to crush his leftist rivals, then turned on the movement and jailed its most prominent advocate, Wei Jingsheng.	CIRC
This was the biggest lesson" of 1989, Bao said.	VERB
I was very active in pushing political reforms.	VERB
But I should have pushed for them earlier.	VERB
From as soon as we smashed the Gang of Four, just when the Democracy Wall was up, we should have started.	VERB
The Gang of Four, which included the widow of Mao Zedong, and which orchestrated the Cultural Revolution, lost out to a more "moderate" faction in the power struggle following Mao's death.	HIST
Bao said the failure to act sooner on reforms has created a country with a weak legal system that risks repeating mistakes of the Cultural Revolution, when millions of people were killed or exiled to the remote countryside in a decade of intraparty strife, and of the Tiananmen Square crackdown in 1989.	VERB
He linked the party's bouts of what he called "madness" with a concern that as China grows more powerful, it could prove a destabilizing force in Asia and world affairs.	VERB
China "has already gone mad twice in the last 40 years," Bao said.	VERB
You have to ask yourself a question:	VERB
What will it do on the international scene?	VERB
Is it a source of stability or a potential source of instability?	VERB
When it doesn't have enough power, its attitude will be restrained.	VERB
But once it develops and becomes strong, what kind of role is it going to play without a complete structural change?	VERB
Bao said China should adopt a system of multiparty democracy and said that the Chinese Communist Party should model itself on American political parties and be more responsive to its citizens.	VERB
If we can't do a multiparty system now, we can still start to work within the party to have a free discussion of opinions," Bao said.	VERB
Though Bao was expelled from the party when he was officially sentenced in 1992, he noted that the ousted premier Zhao is still a party member.	VERB
If he could publicize his views about June 4, that would be an improvement.	VERB
Zhao, who was the second of Deng's proteges to be ousted and who preceded current party chief Jiang Zemin, lost his post after he appeared in Tiananmen Square in May 1989 to express sympathy with the students and to plead with them to leave the site.	HIST
He lives in Beijing under a loose form of house arrest.	HIST
During the party congress last October, he sent a letter to party leaders in an unsuccessful attempt to get them to reassess the events of 1989.	HIST
Bao, who joined the party underground during the 1940s when he was a high school student, had worked with Zhao on economic and political reforms for 10 years at the time of his arrest.	HIST
He was held incommunicado for nearly three years in Beijing's Qincheng Prison, before he was officially sentenced for allegedly leaking state secrets to the student movement.	HIST
Bao said that his treatment showed the absence of true rule of law in China.	VERB
A State Council report written by then-Beijing party chief Chen Xitong (now in jail on corruption charges) accused Bao of leaking word to the students that martial law would be imposed and advising them about how to confront it.	PREV
But at his trial in 1992, no mention was made of those charges, Bao said.	PREV
Bao's imprisonment violated one of the unspoken rules Deng made after the Cultural Revolution.	EVAL
That rule was: If you're a senior party official and lose a power struggle, you lose your job	EVAL
but you don't go to jail the way people did in the Cultural Revolution.	EVAL
Bao is the only exception to that in the past 20 years.	EVAL
Bao had no severe complaints about his treatment in jail.	VERB
But he said he was denied medical treatment after his release in 1996 when he was confined to a workers' dormitory in a western suburb of Beijing for 11 months.	VERB
About a year ago, Bao was allowed to leave the dormitory on condition that he not return to his home in central Beijing.	PREV
He now lives in a six-room apartment in western Beijing, near the famous Babaoshan cemetery.	PREV
He lives on his stipend from the Communist Party and his wife's pension, a combined income of about $ 170 a month.	PREV
He says he passes his time doting on his wife and playing with his 9-year-old granddaughter.	PREV
She's unruly, unlike some Chinese girls," he said.	VERB
Unfortunately, she has my genes.	VERB

American Home Products Corp. said yesterday that it will acquire biotechnology leader Monsanto Co. in a $ 33 billion deal designed to create a powerhouse in the market for genetically engineered breakthroughs in agriculture, food, pharmaceuticals and nutrition.	MAIN
The new company, as yet unnamed, would seek to capitalize on a revolution sweeping biological science.	MAIN
It would have approximately $ 23 billion in sales in 1998 and would combine American Home's strength in health products with Monsanto's enormous capabilities in agricultural and pharmaceutical research.	MAIN
Various divisions of American Home sell Advil, ChapStick, Robitussin cough products, Centrum vitamins, Premarin hormone supplements and other products that are household names.	MAIN
The deal, if approved by regulators and stockholders, would provide Monsanto with the money and marketing clout to move a fat portfolio of new drugs and agricultural products from the development pipeline into production.	EXPE
And it would give American Home a far bigger stake in biotechnology, a hot growth industry.	EXPE
The proposed merger comes at a time when Monsanto and other biotechnology companies have formed alliances to help them survive intensifying competition and capitalize on new opportunities in the field known broadly as "life sciences" research.	CIRC
Deepening scientific knowledge about the way genes work in plants, animals and people is allowing companies to develop new treatments for diseases, new methods to raise crop yields and improve the flavor of fruits and vegetables, and new ways to lessen the environmental damage from farms and factories.	EVAL
These various endeavors, once seen as distinct businesses, are coming to look more alike because progress in all of them is increasingly based on manipulating tiny bits of genetic material.	EVAL
We will have the scientific depth, global marketing capabilities and financial resources to take greater advantage of the opportunities before us and to bring innovative new products to market faster," said Monsanto Chairman Robert B. Shapiro.	VERB
Shapiro, 59, and American Home Chairman John R. Stafford, 60, will be co-chairmen of the new company.	VERB
Executives of Monsanto and American Home said they hope to create a prototype of the life-sciences company of the future, equally adept at putting new knowledge to work to build a better tomato or to treat a human disease.	VERB
There is an enormous market for products that will help us live longer, overcome disease and have a higher quality of life," said Carl Feldbaum, head of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, a trade group based in Washington.	VERB
We're talking about a wide variety of new products that will lead to cures, better nutrition, a cleaner environment.	VERB
Indeed, the opportunities are now so numerous that many of the world's biotechnology companies are choking on information, unable to deploy enough capital to move all their good ideas onto the market at once.	EVAL
We are one of the prime examples of that," said Nicholas L. Reding, vice chairman of Monsanto.	VERB
When Shapiro took over Monsanto in 1995, he began pushing the company hard toward life-sciences research, ultimately spinning off the chemicals business on which Monsanto was originally built.	CIRC
The result was an embarrassment of riches, a product pipeline so fat that Monsanto cut shareholder dividends to try to develop many new products at once.	CIRC
We are rolling out products in agricultural biotech at an incredible rate," Reding said.	VERB
And we have four or five major, major drugs coming in the next few years.	VERB
Monsanto last month acquired the nation's second-largest seed company, DeKalb Genetics Corp., and Delta & Pine Land Co., which breeds and produces cotton and soybeans.	PREV
But even as it was announcing those deals, Monsanto was viewed as a likely target of a takeover, possibly by DuPont Co., Pfizer Inc. or Zeneca PLC.	PREV
Indeed, though the agreement between the two companies requires a payment of $ 700 million if either subsequently walks away from the deal, other bidders for Monsanto might still emerge, analysts said.	EXPE
Under the terms of the deal, Mosanto shareholders will receive 1.15 shares in the new company for each share of Monsanto they own, and American Home share owners will retain their shares.	MAIN
Monsanto's shareholders will hold about 35 percent of the stock of the new company.	MAIN
The news got mixed reviews from investors.	CONS
American Home shares rose 93 3/4 cents to close at $ 49.25 in consolidated trading on the New York Stock Exchange.	CONS
Monsanto shares fell 87 1/2 cents, to $ 54.50, also on the NYSE.	CONS
Historically, Monsanto's greatest strength has been in its agricultural products, including its herbicide Roundup, a worldwide success that has grown at a rate of about 20 percent year after year.	HIST
Monsanto has built on that success by genetically engineering crops that will resist Roundup -- which kills anything green -- while it wipes out the weeds among them.	HIST
In 1985, the company acquired G.D. Searle & Co. to move into the pharmaceutical industry, where it has a number of potentially promising products under development and nearing approval by the Food and Drug Administration, including an anti-arthritis drug that doesn't cause the stomach and intestinal damage of similar drugs.	HIST
American Home Products is based in Madison, N.J., which is to be the corporate headquarters of the new company.	CIRC
Earlier this year the company, which had been under pressure since last fall when it was forced to withdraw two obesity drugs from the market amid safety concerns, had talked about a possible merger with SmithKline Beecham PLC, the manufacturer of the cold medicine Contac and the antacid Tums.	CIRC
But the talks collapsed short of a merger.	CIRC
Although the company is best known for pharmaceuticals and over-the-counter remedies, American Home also has an agricultural chemicals business that it acquired when it took over American Cyanamid in 1994.	HIST

Ian McCartney helped make history in Northern Ireland today -- but he didn't find it easy.	LEAD
It's just a wee sheet of paper they give you," the gray-haired chicken farmer said as he emerged from the voting booth at Balleymoney Model Primary School.	VERB
But don't you know, it's a complicated thing to work out.	VERB
McCartney and the other 1.2 million eligible voters in this war-torn British province were voting this rainy day on the 108 members of a brand new Northern Ireland Assembly, which will take over local government powers here as part of the new peace plan designed to end decades of sectarian violence.	MAIN
The assembly will give a locally elected government to Northern Ireland for the first time in a quarter of a century.	MAIN
The last local parliament was disbanded in 1972 when the British government concluded the Protestant majority was using it to legalize discrimination against Roman Catholics.	MAIN
Counting was to begin Friday, with results not expected until Saturday.	MAIN
The "complicated thing" facing voters is an electoral system called "Proportional Representation With the Single Transferable Vote.	CIRC
Common in Europe, it's a voting mechanism designed to ensure the elected assembly accurately reflects the wide range of choices available in a jurisdiction with many competing political parties.	CIRC
Twelve parties, plus a cross section of independent candidates, were on the ballots in the 18 assembly districts today.	CIRC
The "wee sheet of paper" required voters to allocate their support among an alphabet soup of parties generally known by their initials: the D.U.P, the P.U.P, the U.U.P, the U.D.P.	CIRC
Five parties represent different strains of the position known here as "unionist" -- that is, those who want to retain the political union with Britain.	CIRC
Most unionists are Protestant.	CIRC
Two major parties represent the "nationalist" position -- those who want to break the tie with Britain and form a single nation with the Republic of Ireland, which makes up the southern two-thirds of the island.	CIRC
Most nationalists are Catholic.	CIRC
The other parties are so-called cross-community groupings.	CIRC
Some represent specific interests, such as the environmentally minded Green Party, and some were created to overcome the sectarian divisions that have sparked street warfare and terrorist murder over the past three decades.	CIRC
As a reminder of those old animosities, a large car bomb exploded Wednesday in the small village of Newtownhamilton, injuring a half-dozen people and wrecking homes and cars.	CIRC
Today, though, voters turned out in large numbers in Newtownhamilton to demonstrate that they prefer the ballot to the bomb.	MAIN
Voters got one vote each -- but each vote could be split among numerous candidates.	CIRC
All the candidates in each district are listed on the ballot, and voters are asked to rank them in order of preference -- first choice, second choice and so on, all the way down to 23rd choice in some districts.	CIRC
The choices are then allocated among the various contenders in such a way that the six assembly members to be chosen from each district will reflect the range of preferences among the electorate.	CIRC
It's a tricky business," McCartney said after spending 15 minutes distributing his vote.	VERB
You have to give some help to parties you don't normally support.	VERB
You know, that keeps out the one you're absolutely opposed to.	VERB
For some voters in this green, rolling farm district, the choices were simpler.	VERB
Balleymoney is in the North Antrim district, the electoral home of a fiery Protestant leader, the Rev. Ian Paisley, who opposes the peace agreement.	VERB
Several people leaving the primary school said they had simply marked Ian Paisley and his son, Ian Paisley Jr., as their first and second choices -- and ignored every other name on the ballot.	VERB

Former Communist Party chief Zhao Ziyang, ousted in 1989 on the eve of the bloody crackdown on democracy demonstrators in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, has written a letter asking current party leaders to admit that the move against the student-led protests was a grave mistake.	MAIN
With President Clinton due to arrive in China Thursday night for a nine-day visit, the Reuters news agency obtained a copy of Zhao's letter, which said that the killing of hundreds of demonstrators on June 4, 1989, was "one of the biggest human rights problems this century.	MAIN
Clinton is the first U.S. president to visit China since Communist leaders ordered troops to open fire on the Tiananmen demonstrators.	EVAL
The President has been criticized by members of Congress and U.S. human rights groups for agreeing to take part in an official welcoming ceremony next to the square.	CIRC
President Clinton's visit to China marks a turn for the better in Sino-U.S. relations," wrote Zhao, 78, who was general secretary of the Communist Party and now lives under loose house arrest in Beijing.	VERB
But the United States and the whole of the West have again and again raised the June 4 problem and the human rights problem of China," he added.	VERB
Rather than let it become an obstacle to international relations, it would be better to resolve the June 4 problem ourselves voluntarily.	VERB
White House aides have said that Clinton will speak publicly about human rights problems in China during his trip but that he will not attempt to meet with Chinese dissidents.	MAIN
Such meetings would anger his host, President Jiang Zemin, and possibly put the dissidents in danger of arrest, U.S. officials have said.	CONS
Zhao was toppled from power when other party leaders, including senior leader Deng Xiaoping, decided that he was too sympathetic toward the student protesters.	HIST
Zhao opposed the imposition of martial law and went to Tiananmen Square to plead with student leaders to disperse the crowds to avoid disaster.	HIST
Later, after tanks rolled into the square, Zhao defended the students and their demands in a secret statement to party leaders.	HIST
In recent years, the Chinese Communist Party has modified its description of the 1989 demonstrations, changing its characterization from a "counterrevolutionary riot," to an "incident," to the current usage of a very mild version of the word "disturbance.	HIST
But the party has steadfastly defended the decision to order troops to fire on demonstrators.	HIST
Zhao's letter is likely to irritate Jiang, who replaced him as Communist Party chief in 1989.	EXPE
Zhao made a similar plea to party leaders last September during an important party congress, and Jiang, in an interview last October, said sternly that Zhao "must accept party discipline.	PREV
Recently, the government has also tightened its watch on dissidents in an effort to avoid any disruption during Clinton's visit.	CONS
Several Chinese who have visited Beijing from other cities have been picked up by police and sent home.	CONS
Police also detained a dissident today in the southern city of Guilin, which Clinton is to visit on July 1.	CONS
Eight policemen took Li Xiaolong, 34, a onetime member of the defunct dissident group Human Rights Voice, from his home and placed him in custody.	CONS
Despite his age, Zhao is still considered a potential political force, capable of rallying reformers within the party	EVAL
Following the September letter, there was a tightening of restrictions on Zhao, who has tried to play golf regularly in recent years.	CONS

For one day last week this mountain village in East Timor displayed the kind of social harmony that Indonesia has tried to enforce here during 23 years of military occupation.	LEAD
Indonesian military commanders dressed in civilian clothes and wearing awkward smiles joined hands and danced with East Timorese in traditional costumes to celebrate the inauguration of a new wing of the Roman Catholic Sacred Heart Church.	LEAD
Venilale's chief of police and the army commander, both Catholics, sang hymns in the church choir.	LEAD
Their subordinates, who are predominantly Muslim, helped fashion the decorations for the celebration.	LEAD
They make beautiful flowers," said Sister Lucia Pereira of the Salesian order in Venilale.	LEAD
That the meeting should have happened in a Catholic church was particularly meaningful.	EVAL
Under Indonesia's rule, the Catholic Church in Timor has emerged as a protector of the political opposition in the former Portuguese colony that Indonesia invaded in 1975 and annexed the following year.	EVAL
Parishes throughout East Timor offer sanctuary for victims of human rights abuses, and church-linked organizations often serve as forums for underground groups seeking to win independence from Indonesia.	CIRC
Eighty percent of East Timor's residents are Catholic, while 90 percent of Indonesia's 200 million people are Muslim -- and less than 3 percent of Indonesians are Catholic.	CIRC
Bishop Carlos Belo, who has become a de facto president for the East Timorese because of his efforts to end human rights abuses by the military, met with Indonesian President B.J. Habibie today to discuss the status of the territory.	MAIN
Belo told reporters they talked about an agreement but he declined to give details.	MAIN
He said the military would withdraw "little by little" from the region but gave no timetable.	MAIN
He also indicated that Habibie's stated policy toward East Timor was more conciliatory than that of his predecessor, Suharto, who stepped down last month after 32 years in power.	MAIN
He shows himself as a big politician and a big president," Belo said of Habibie.	VERB
He's ready with his government to improve the situation in East Timor for the better, how to help the people of East Timor live in dignity.	VERB
Following mounting protests against Indonesian rule, Habibie has proposed a plan that would give the territory a degree of autonomy, except in the areas of finance, foreign affairs and security.	CIRC
Timorese activists have said that a referendum is the only way to determine the region's future.	CIRC
The United Nations still recognizes Portugal as the territory's administrative authority.	CIRC
Meetings between Portugal, Indonesia and the United Nations have not resolved East Timor's status during more than 10 years of negotiations.	CIRC
The participation of Belo, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1996 along with self-exiled Timorese leader Jose Ramos-Horta, is key to reaching a solution on East Timor, activists here say.	EVAL
He is one of the few people	EVAL
Timorese say they trust, even though at times his quick temper can make him appear as autocratic as a man in military uniform.	EVAL
The bishop is like God for them," said a Salesian nun in Dili, the East Timorese capital.	VERB
Everybody goes to him -- the simple people.	VERB
If they have an argument over pigs or property they go to him.	VERB
Who [else] would they go to?	VERB
The police?	VERB
The police are all with the military.	VERB
The military can't speak" the local language.	VERB
In an apparent effort to bring the military and the local population closer together, a number of Catholic and other Christian Indonesian officers have been appointed to command positions in Venilale, about three hours east of the capital, and elsewhere in the territory.	MAIN
Antonius Karolus, the Indonesian police chief in Venilale, is a Catholic who is active in local church activities.	VERB
He lives in the village with his wife and children and said he feels as though he is part of the community.	VERB
Where would I go?	VERB
he said.	VERB
I've lived here for 11 years.	VERB
Timorese remain skeptical of the military's commitment to foster goodwill through religion and doubt whether it helps.	VERB
They say they see Catholic soldiers first and foremost as Indonesians.	VERB
It is quite different to be an Indonesian Catholic," said a human rights worker with the Justice and Peace Commission in Dili.	VERB
They bring their culture and their nationalism to impose on East Timor.	VERB
They are Catholic but they represent Indonesian sovereignty that they want to impose on the people.	VERB
Even Catholic priests from Indonesia -- people will not make confession to them," he said.	VERB
The soldiers have their own suspicions about the church, in part because several resistance leaders, including Xanana Gusmao, who is in jail, studied at seminaries in the territory.	CIRC
Even the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts in the church, the military says they are being trained for future empowerment," said an activist who goes by the name of Vico.	VERB
Suharto tried to win the souls of the Timorese a few years ago by making a gift: a massive statue of Jesus on a hill, looking toward Dili.	PREV
But when it was unveiled, as Suharto circled in a helicopter, it was revealed to be somewhat of a false idol.	PREV
Officials announced that it was 27 meters tall, representing the 27 provinces of Indonesia.	PREV
It is 17 meters across, commemorating July 17, the date on which Indonesia "integrated" East Timor.	PREV
The foundation is five meters high, representing the five points of pancasilla, the Indonesian state ideology, which promotes religious tolerance, among other tenets.	PREV
That is how Jesus was born and made by the Indonesians," Vico said.	VERB
His hands are like this," he said, stretching out his arms and turning up his palms:	VERB
"Surrender to Indonesia.	VERB

Alarmed over new violence in Sierra Leone, the Security Council appealed Friday to the Nigerian-led African intervention force to allow speedy delivery of humanitarian aid now that that its troops have captured the West African nation's capital.	MAIN
The Nigerian-led force launched an attack last week to unseat the military junta and restore the country's elected president, Ahmed Tejan Kabbah, who was ousted last May in a bloody coup.	MAIN
Nigerian-led troops captured large parts of the center of the capital, Freetown, on Thursday.	MAIN
Civilians reportedly celebrated in the streets.	MAIN
The events in Sierra Leone were deeply embarrassing to the council, however.	CONS
Although the 15 members had called for Kabbah's restoration, they had never authorized the use of force.	CONS
Instead, the council had endorsed an agreement reached last year for a peaceful restoration of the elected government by April 22.	CONS
Foreign ministers of the West African countries involved in the peacekeeping force had visited U.N. headquarters last week but gave no indication they were about to launch a bid to overthrow the junta.	CONS
``The Security Council expressed its concern over the very unstable situation in parts of the country and over the heavy civilian losses which have been reported,'' council President Denis Dangue Rewaka of Gabon told reporters after a meeting.	VERB
``The Security Council has emphasized that international humanitarian law must be upheld,'' he added.	VERB
``The Security Council called for the humanitarian assistance to be activated immediately, including cross-border operations, and for full, unrestricted access to the people in need.''	VERB
Dangue Rewaka also said the council urged protection of international aid workers and steps to return the country to stability.	VERB
It urged the Nigerian-led force ``to cooperate fully'' with the United Nations ``with the view of rapid evaluation of the situation on the ground.''	VERB
Dangue Rewaka refused to say whether the council felt embarrassed by the failure of West African foreign ministers to notify them in advance of the campaign.	VERB
But he noted that the council had never authorized the West Africans to use force to oust the junta.	VERB
He acknowledged that the council was ``concerned by the use of force.''	VERB
During the meeting, the U.N. humanitarian coordinator, Sergio de Mello, said about 250,000 people had been displaced by the fighting.	VERB
De Mello said the situation was ``dramatic, not only in the area of Freetown'' but elsewhere in the country.	VERB
The West African force intervened in Sierra Leone soon after the junta led by Maj.	MAIN
Johnny Koroma toppled Kabbah.	MAIN
After bombarding Freetown in a failed attempt to drive the junta from power, the force blockaded Freetown's port to prevent food, fuel and other necessities from reaching the city.	MAIN
Despite international criticism of its human-rights record, Nigeria _ apparently trying to improve its image and its clout in the region _ has become a self-appointed protector of democracy in parts of Africa.	EVAL

Iraq's deputy foreign minister attacked U.S. National Security Advisor Sandy Berger Friday, accusing him of ``lies and deception.''	LEAD
Riyadh al-Qaysi picked his way through Berger's press conference in Washington hours earlier, criticizing the security advisor's assertion that Iraq had been repeatedly in ``material breach'' of U.N. Security Council resolutions.	MAIN
``Iraq challenges (Berger) to produce one Security Council resolution using those two words,'' al-Qaysi told reporters in Baghdad.	MAIN
He said that Berger might not have been concerned with reality, because he had indicated that if the United States did not have the Security Council's unanimous support for a military strike, it would go ahead anyway.	VERB
``Everybody knows that under the charter of the United Nations, the five permanent members have a special responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security and there are three permanent members _ namely Russia, France and China _ who do not want war, so unanimity does not exist,'' al-Qaysi said.	MAIN
The deputy foreign minister accused Berger of being part of a campaign against Iraq.	MAIN
``This campaign is being conducted on the basis of lies and deception and should not be taken by anyone in the world as being a justifiable basis for war.''	VERB
``This is exactly what the United States, as supported by the United Kingdom, are trying to achieve.''	VERB

Israel will ask the United States to delay a military strike against Iraq until the Jewish state is fully prepared for a possible Iraqi attack with non-conventional weapons, the defense minister said in remarks published Friday.	MAIN
The U.S. ambassador to Israel, Edward Walker, assured Defense Minister Yitzhak Mordechai in a meeting that Israel would have enough time to properly prepare.	CONS
Israel is equipping its residents with gas masks and preparing kits with antidotes.	MAIN
Gabi Ofir, the commander of Israel's distribution centers told Israel Radio that 300,000 gas mask kits have been dispensed to the public in the last several weeks.	CONS
Israel has been scrambling to buy more masks abroad.	CONS
after a shortage of several hundred thousand gas masks, including those for young children, was discovered.	CONS
Germany has agreed to lend Israel 180,000 protective kits against chemical and biological weapons, and Switzerland offered to lend Israel another 25,000 masks.	CONS
In Stockholm, the Swedish government announced it has authorized the sale of up to 80,000 gas masks for children.	CONS
Government spokesman Moshe Fogel said Israel appreciated the Swiss offer, but would have to determine the masks' compatibility to Israel's needs before accepting.	CONS
Meanwhile, an Israeli delegation traveled Friday to Oslo to examine 200,000 gas masks the Norwegian government has offered, Israel radio said.	CONS
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called the prime minister of the Netherlands to thank him for thousands of gas masks his country has already contributed.	CONS
The Defense Ministry said 16 planes have landed so far with protective equipment against biological and chemical warfare.	CONS
Mordechai said all the gas masks from abroad would arrive soon and be distributed to the public, adding that additional distribution centers would be set up next week.	CONS
`There is no reason why we would not be prepared,''	VERB
Mordechai told the Yediot Ahronot daily.	VERB
``If, in spite of everything, we will not be ready, we will ask the United States to delay the operation.''	VERB
``There is no certainty that they will do what we ask, but they will definitely take into consideration our readiness,'' he added.	VERB
Israel's armed forces chief, Lt. Gen. Amnon Lipkin-Shahak, appeared on national television Friday night in attempt to reassure a jittery public.	VERB
``When events are concrete and actually unfolding, we will include the entire population in the measures we decide are appropriate to take,''	VERB
Shahak said in an interview with Channel Two Television.	VERB
Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz said earlier this week that Baghdad has no intention of attacking Israel even if Iraq is targeted by the United States.	VERB

Dominican authorities have arrested a doctor sought by U.S. authorities for defrauding the Medicare system for millions of dollars while practicing in New York.	MAIN
The arrest of the politically well-connected Dr. Rafael Gonzalez Pantaleon represents another step by Dominican authorities toward increased cooperation with the United States, which is seeking extradition of numerous suspects hiding out in their home country.	EVAL
Gonzalez Pantaleon, a former government official and political party leader in this Caribbean nation, was convicted in New York in 1996 of defrauding Medicare of dlrs 20 million.	CIRC
He was sentenced to six and one-half years in prison and fined dlrs 5 million, but he fled the United States while free on bail.	CIRC
Officials said Gonzalez Pantaleon was arrested Thursday, one day after U.S. Undersecretary of State John Hamilton met with President Leonel Fernandez to ask for the extradition of 30 drug trafficking and murder suspects believed to be in the Dominican Republic	CIRC
Extradition of Dominicans is a controversial topic made more complicated by conflicting laws.	EVAL
Fernandez has urged a new law be passed to clear up the conflict.	CONS
Last year, Fernandez handed over to U.S. authorities two suspects accused in U.S. courts of multiple murders, drug trafficking and conspiracy.	PREV
Fernandez justified the extraditions by saying that the country could not become a haven for fleeing felons.	VERB

Turning its back on 210 years of loyalty to the British royal family, a constitutional convention voted overwhelmingly Friday to make Australia a republic under its own president.	MAIN
Prime Minister John Howard, a monarchist himself, promised to put the question to a national referendum next year after convention delegates voted 89-52 for a republic, with 11 abstentions.	CIRC
Spontaneous applause echoed through the chamber and public galleries as the crucial vote passed by a wide margin.	CONS
``I want a referendum,''	VERB
Howard said.	VERB
``The Australian people are owed the opportunity of expressing an opinion on this.''	VERB
``It would be a travesty in common sense terms of Australian democracy for that proposition not to be put to the Australian people,''	VERB
Howard said.	VERB
``This convention will be seen as a turning point in our history,'' Australian Republican Movement spokeswoman Mary Delahunty said.	VERB
Even in his own Cabinet, Howard is becoming increasingly isolated with his monarchist stance	EVAL
Treasurer Peter Costello, Environment Minister Robert Hill and Attorney General Daryl Williams all voted to support the republic Friday.	CIRC
Pro-republicans hope to have an Australian president by the opening of the 2000 Olympics and the 100th anniversary of Australian federation.	EXPE
Calling for an amended constitution with a new preamble, to be written by Australian poets, republican Janet Holmes a Court said, ``We need the smell of eucalyptus in this, and the feel of red dust.''	VERB
Monarchists hope to defeat the republic at the referendum.	MAIN
``The phony war has finished and the real referendum campaign has clearly begun,''	VERB
Australians for a Constitutional Monarchy executive director Kerry Jones said.	VERB
``Well may we say `God save the Queen,' for nothing will save the republic,'' outraged monarchist delegate David Mitchell said.	VERB
``The idea of a republic will fall to dust through the grace of almighty God.''	VERB
Polls have shown public support for a republic increasing, rising from about 35 percent several years ago to about 51 percent this year, as pro-monarchist sentiment diminishes.	CIRC
Australia has been independent since 1901, but like many Commonwealth nations it still recognizes the British monarch as its head of state.	HIST
``She is, I can assure you, from what I've been told, she's following the thing very closely and taking the view	VERB
it's our business.	VERB
``It's no secret that she's indicated to me ...	VERB
she is a 20th century democrat, understands that the role of the crown in Australia rests in the hands of the Australian people as it has for almost a hundred years.'	VERB
``This is an important step along the path towards Australia claiming its full sovereignty, and due recognition that the monarchy can no longer serve us appropriately,'' Keating said.	VERB

Britain and some of its Caribbean colonies clashed over London's insistence that the islands abolish the death penalty as a step towards closer relations, delegates to a Caribbean forum said Friday.	LEAD
Foreign Secretary Robin Cook, who attended the United Kingdom-Caribbean Forum in Nassau, has urged the colonies to join the Labor government in abolishing the death penalty.	MAIN
Cook made the appeal in a Feb. 4 speech in which he said Britain was considering granting full citizenship to its colonies.	MAIN
Toward closer ties, the colonies also are getting their own minister, a forum for annual top-level consultations, and a new name _ ``overseas territories''	VERB
_ reflecting they are self-governing rather than dependent.	VERB
``They are saying we must eliminate the death penalty.	VERB
But we had a referendum and people voted for it to remain,'' Bermuda Premier Pamela Gordon said Friday.	VERB
Other delegates said the former British colonies of Belize and Trinidad and Tobago were upset that the death penalty issue was included in a working session on human rights on Thursday.	MAIN
British officials had no immediate comment on the discussions.	MAIN
Some Caribbean countries beset by an increasing number of drug-related murders have tried to use the death penalty.	CIRC
But they have been obstructed by the Privy Council in London, the highest appeals court for several former and current British colonies.	CIRC
In 1993, the Privy Council ruled it was inhumane to execute prisoners who had waited on death row for more than five years.	HIST
It recommended that inmates who exceed that period have their sentences commuted to life in prison.	HIST
The ruling effectively ended hangings in many Caribbean countries, where appeals cases sometimes drag on for a decade.	EVAL
Delegates from some former colonies have suggested they will act on longstanding plans to create their own supreme court and cut their ties to the Privy Council.	CONS
``Human rights mean different things to different countries, and for us in the Caribbean we have made it clear we don't want anybody lecturing us about human rights,'' said Guyanese Foreign Minister Clement Rohee.	VERB

CANBERRA, Australia (AP)	LEAD
_ Qantas will almost double its flights between Australia and India by August in the search for new markets untouched by the crippling Asian financial crisis.	LEAD
This move comes barely a month after Qantas suspended a number of services between Australia, Indonesia, Thailand and Malaysia in the wake of the Asian economic crisis.	PREV
The airline has also cut all flights to South Korea.	CIRC
Qantas plans daily flights between Sydney and Bombay, up from the current four flights a week, to boost business and tourism ties with India, the airline announced Friday.	MAIN
In a joint statement with Tourism Minister Andrew Thomson, it said two new flights would leave Bombay on Monday and Tuesday nights from March 30, with the third departing each Thursday from August 6.	VERB
This will add nearly 700 seats a week on the route.	CONS
Thomson, in India to talk to tourism leaders, said the flights would provide extra support to the growing tourism market.	VERB
Qantas' India manager Khursheed Lam said the airline was working closely with the Australian Tourist Commission to develop greater awareness of Australia in the Indian market.	VERB
Qantas will also appoint a Bombay-based public relations consultant.	CIRC

AMSTERDAM, Netherlands (AP)	LEAD
_ Storied Dutch soccer club Ajax Amsterdam is planning to seek a listing on the Amsterdam stock exchange, Dutch media reported Friday, citing ``reliable sources.''	LEAD
Ajax declined comment, but a meeting has been called Monday for club members to discuss the future, club sources told the Dutch NOS and RTL news programs.	VERB
Ajax, currently leading the Dutch league and a quarter finalist in the UEFA Cup, would become the first Dutch soccer club to float itself on the stock exchange in a move that would likely generate millions of guilders (dlrs) in extra revenue.	EXPE
Although Ajax has long been one of Europe's most successful clubs, it has never spent heavily on the transfer market, instead relying on its world famous youth development program to turn out home-grown stars.	EVAL
In the past the scheme has produced players including Johan Cruyff, Arsenal's Dennis Bergkamp and AC Milan striker Patrick Kluivert.	HIST
Ajax has won the Dutch league a record 26 times and European soccer's greatest prize, the European Cup, four times.	HIST
Any move to the stock exchange is expected to be led by Ajax's main sponsor, the Dutch bank ABN Amro.	EXPE
Sources at the bank also declined to comment on a planned listing.	EXPE

The U.S.-Russian split over Iraq underlines how ties between Moscow and Washington have cooled as the Russians try to reassert themselves as a world power.	LEAD
While there is no danger of reviving the Cold War rivalry that dominated the world for more than 45 years, the diplomatic honeymoon that followed the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 is coming to an end.	LEAD
Both Moscow and Washington value good relations, but there are likely to be more and more disagreements as Russia goes its own way.	EVAL
Russia's opposition to the use of force in Iraq is the latest in a series of foreign policy disputes with the United States.	EVAL
Moscow bitterly opposes NATO expansion in east Europe, and Parliament has blocked the START II missile-reduction treaty with Washington.	MAIN
Moscow also is building links with China, saying the world must not be dominated by the United States.	MAIN
President Boris Yeltsin and other top Russian officials have unleashed a barrage of warnings on U.S. military strikes against Iraq.	MAIN
Yeltsin said last week a U.S. attack could lead to world war and his defense minister, Igor Sergeyev, publicly warned U.S. Defense Secretary William Cohen in Moscow against attacking Iraq.	MAIN
At the heart of Russia's opposition are two issues.	EVAL
On one level, the issue is mostly pragmatic.	EVAL
The second issue, emotive and unpredictable, is Russia's status in the world.	EVAL
Many Russians yearn for the days when Moscow was the world's other superpower.	EVAL
Russia, its economy in chaos, desperately needs the cash and also hopes for big new contracts with Iraq when sanctions end.	EVAL
Russian officials dismiss suggestions they would aid Iraq against the United States.	VERB
Moscow backs United Nations' efforts to strip Iraq of weapons of mass production, but says only a diplomatic solution can work.	VERB
Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov, who formed close ties in the Middle East as a Soviet diplomat, has pushed for a Moscow-backed solution on Iraq to help restore Russian influence in the region.	CIRC
The Russian government has neither the desire or power to risk a major confrontation with the United States.	EVAL
Yeltsin considers good relations with Washington a foundation of his foreign policy.	EVAL
But the Russian government and many politicians will be stridently critical of the United States if they believe they are being ignored.	EXPE
And Russian nationalists will use resentment of American power to boost their calls to revive Russia as a great power.	EXPE
Anti-American resentment has increased as the United States has tried to influence Russian policy through economic leverage _ particularly in the hard-line parliament.	CIRC
Some American officials concede that Washington should be more careful about Russian sensibilities.	VERB
Moscow should be courted as an ally, they say, lending support to democratic government in Russia.	VERB
``I think it does reflect a sense here of resentment of being ordered around, which in some cases I think our government has done in a way that is not productive,'' U.S. Ambassador James Collins said recently.	VERB

AMSTERDAM, Netherlands (AP)	LEAD
_ Legendary Dutch soccer club Ajax Amsterdam is planning to seek a listing on the Amsterdam stock exchange, Dutch media reported Friday, citing reliable sources.	LEAD
Ajax declined comment, but a meeting has been called Monday for club members to discuss the future, club sources told the Dutch NOS and RTL news programs.	PREV
Ajax, currently leading the Dutch league and a quarter finalist in the UEFA Cup, would become the first Dutch soccer club to float itself on the stock exchange in a move that would likely generate millions of guilders (dollars) in extra revenue.	CIRC
Although Ajax has long been one of Europe's most successful clubs, it has never spent heavily on the transfer market, instead relying on its world famous youth development program to turn out home-grown stars.	CIRC
In the past the scheme has produced players including Johan Cruyff, Arsenal's Dennis Bergkamp and AC Milan striker Patrick Kluivert.	PREV
Ajax has won the Dutch league a record 26 times and European soccer's greatest prize, the European Cup, four times.	HIST
Any move to the stock exchange is expected to be led by Ajax's main sponsor, the Dutch bank ABN Amro.	EXPE
Sources at the bank also declined to comment on a planned listing.	EXPE

BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)	LEAD
Iraq's deputy foreign minister attacked U.S. National Security Advisor Sandy Berger Friday, accusing him of ``lies and deception.''	LEAD
Riyadh al-Qaysi picked his way through Berger's press conference in Washington hours earlier, criticizing the security advisor's assertion that Iraq had been repeatedly in ``material breach'' of U.N. Security Council resolutions.	MAIN
``Iraq challenges (Berger) to produce one Security Council resolution using those two words,'' al-Qaysi told reporters in Baghdad.	VERB
He said that Berger might not have been concerned with reality, because he had indicated that if the United States did not have the Security Council's unanimous support for a military strike, it would go ahead anyway.	VERB
``Everybody knows that under the charter of the United Nations, the five permanent members have a special responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security and there are three permanent members _ namely Russia, France and China _ who do not want war, so unanimity does not exist,'' al-Qaysi said.	VERB
The deputy foreign min	MAIN
ister accused Berger of being part of a campaign against Iraq.	VERB
``This campaign is being conducted on the basis of lies and deception and should not be taken	VERB
by anyone in the world as being a justifiable basis for war.'' ``This is exactly what the United States, as s	VERB

CAGUAS, Puerto Rico (AP)	LEAD
_ Kidnappers kept their promise to kill a store owner	LEAD
they took hostage and police	LEAD
found the man's dismembered and decapitated body Friday wrapped in plastic garbage bags.	LEAD
Police confirmed Friday that the body found along a highway in this municipality 15 miles south of San Juan belonged to Jorge Hernandez, 49.	MAIN
Hernandez was kidnapped from his small, neighborhood store in the town of Trujillo Alto at 10 p.m. Wednesday, police said.	PREV
His kidnappers demanded a ransom of dlrs 1 million, but negotiations broke off at noon Thursday.	PREV
Police gave no details about the negotiations with the kidnappers for the return of Hernandez.	PREV
The store owner's body was found with the arms and head cut off and the parts stuffed in separate garbage bags.	MAIN
A passerby called police to report the body alongside the road.	MAIN
Puerto Rico Police Superintendent Pedro Toledo urged people who might be targeted by kidnappers to be alert.	VERB
``There has been an increase in Puerto Rico in this kind of thing and some of these bands of kidnappers are made up of foreigners,''	VERB
Toledo said.	VERB
While some Latin American countries such as Mexico and Colombia have suffered from a rash of kidnappings in recent years, the crime has not been common in this U.S. commonwealth.	EVAL

TBILISI, Georgia (AP)	LEAD
_ Kidnappers seized four United Nations military observers in the former Soviet republic of Georgia on Thursday, but police quickly tracked down and surrounded the armed gang.	LEAD
The abductors demanded that the government free seven people arrested for allegedly taking part in the last week's failed attempt to kill President Eduard Shevardnadze.	MAIN
Traveling in two cars, the kidnappers abducted the observers and stole one of their vehicles in the western Georgia town of Zugdidi, police said.	MAIN
Several hours later, police encircled a house where the kidnappers and the hostages were holed up in the village of Dzhikhaskari, 20 kilometers (12 miles) away, Georgia's Interior Minister Kakha Targamadze said.	VERB
Security officials placed armored military vehicles outside the house and began negotiations with the kidnappers, the interior minister added.	VERB
The kidnap victims included two observers from Uruguay, one from Sweden and one from the Czech Republic, along with their Georgian driver, according to the U.N. office.	CIRC
The Uruguayans were identified as captains Ronald Garcia and Julio Navas, and the Swede as Maj.	CIRC
Maaren Moelgaard.	CIRC
The identities of the others were not immediately known.	CIRC
The interior minister said the kidnappers were supporters of former president Zviad Gamsakhurdia, who was ousted in 1992 and who died under mysterious circumstances in 1994.	VERB
The kidnappers said they would free their hostages only if authorities release all seven Gamsakhurdia supporters arrested in recent days for alleged involvement in a Feb. 9 assassination attempt against Shevardnadze.	CIRC
Two of Shevardnadze's bodyguards were killed in last week's attack, as was one of the assailants, but the president was unharmed.	PREV
The U.N. observers are in Georgia to monitor the truce between government forces and separatists in the northwest province of Abkhazia.	HIST
The separatists took control of the province in a 1992-3 war.	HIST
The U.N. team, along with Russian forces, have helped prevent further outbreaks of fighting, but there has been no real progress toward a political settlement.	EVAL
(md/vi/gm)	EVAL

O'SMACH, Cambodia (AP)	LEAD
The top commander of a Cambodian resistance force said Thursday he has sent a team to recover the remains of a British mine removal expert kidnapped and presumed killed by Khmer Rouge guerrillas almost two years ago.	LEAD
Gen. Nhek Bunchhay, a loyalist of ousted Cambodian Prime Minister Prince Norodom Ranariddh, said in an interview with The Associated Press at his hilltop headquarters that he hopes to recover the remains of Christopher Howes within the next two weeks.	VERB
Howes had been working for the Britain-based Mines Advisory Group when he was abducted with his Cambodian interpreter Houn Hourth in March 1996.	HIST
There were many conflicting accounts of his fate.	HIST
Howes' team was clearing mines 17 kilometers (10 miles) from Angkor Wat, the fabled 11th century temple that is Cambodia's main tourist attraction, when it was attacked.	HIST
In January this year, British police officers who had been searching for Howes concluded he had probably been killed soon after being captured.	PREV
The Foreign Office said it had informed the family of Howes, 37 years old when he was kidnapped, that he probably died within weeks or months of his capture on March 26, 1996.	VERB
``Obviously, it is deeply discouraging for the family after 22 months, but there is no proof of life.	VERB
But there is no evidence in either direction	VERB
_ that there is proof of life or death	VERB
,'' said a Foreign Office spokesman, speaking with customary anonymity.	VERB
``We will continue to do everything we can to establish what has happened.''	VERB
Thai military officials who monitor Cambodian affairs said privately Thursday that Britain, through its embassies in Thailand and Cambodia, has been pushing hard to resolve the Howes case as the second anniversary of his abduction nears.	VERB
Nhek Bunchhay, who had been closely involved in the search for Howes before having to flee the Cambodian capital after a coup d'etat last year, appeared confident he would find Howes' remains.	EVAL
He said he received information from Khmer Rouge guerrillas on where the body had been buried, and recently ordered 10 of his men from a force of 500 near Khmer Rouge headquarters in Anlong Veng to conduct the search.	VERB
If and when the remains are found, he said, they would be turned over to the British Embassy, apparently meaning they would be sent across the border into Thailand and onward to Bangkok.	VERB
Nhek Bunchhay said he now believed Howes had been killed within a week of his capture by a Khmer Rouge faction loyal to Pol Pot, then the guerrilla group's leader.	VERB
Pol Pot is considered responsible for the radical policies that led to the deaths of as many as 1.7 million Cambodians when the communist group held power in the late 1970s.	VERB
At the time Howes was captured, the Khmer Rouge were a more or less united guerrilla force with more than 10,000 men under arms.	HIST
But the group began to fall apart in mid-1996 after the defection of one of its top leaders, Ieng Sary.	HIST
Other commanders, and thousands of guerrillas, followed him.	HIST
A small hardcore group under Pol Pot continued to hold out at their headquarters at Anlong Veng in northern Cambodia near the Thai border.	CIRC
But in June last year, the remaining leadership had a falling out, and Pol Pot was arrested.	PREV
In July last year in Phnom Penh, Cambodia's capital, Second Prime Minister Hun Sen staged a successful coup d'etat against First Prime Minister Prince Norodom Ranariddh.	PREV
Ranariddh's loyalists, including Nhek Bunchhay, his top military commander, went into hiding or fled the capital.	PREV
Nhek Bunchhay, evading an intensive manhunt, made his way to O'Smach, the last major outpost held by Ranariddh's forces.	CIRC
His men have held the stronghold _ which is on the border just opposite the Thai province of Surin _ against repeated intense attacks by Hun Sen's troops.	CIRC
They have been aided by Khmer Rouge guerrillas from Anlong Veng, who have formed an alliance with Ranariddh's resistance forces to oppose Hun Sen.	CIRC

PARIS (AP)	LEAD
_ France expressed optimism Thursday about U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan's visit to Baghdad, with the Foreign Ministry saying a diplomatic solution was still possible.	LEAD
Annan is expected to arrive in Paris early Thursday evening for meetings with French President Jacques Chirac and Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine before leaving for Iraq on Friday morning.	EXPE
``We will reiterate our support for the Secretary General's mission, which should lead to a diplomatic solution of the crisis,''	VERB
French Foreign Ministry spokesman Yves Doutriaux told a regular news briefing Thursday.	VERB
France has cautioned the United States against leading a military strike against Baghdad in the belief that Saddam Hussein may still back down and agree to unrestricted access for U.N. weapons inspectors to all sites.	CIRC
Chirac was expected to stress to Annan that France wants a peaceful solution to the crisis.	EVAL
Unlike Britain, France has not contributed to a buildup of Western forces in the Persian Gulf.	EVAL
France's interior minister, an outspoken critic of U.S. policy in the Gulf, has criticized what he called ``American diplomacy's will for war'' and said the United States should have shown such resolve during World War II.	VERB
Under U.N. resolutions following the 1991 Gulf War that followed Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, Baghdad must destroy its biological, chemical and nuclear weapons programs before a U.N. trade embargo can be lifted.	CIRC
(parf-dgs)	CIRC

YAOUNDE, Cameroon (AP)	LEAD
The death toll in a massive rail tanker car explosion has climbed to 221 with authorities on Wednesday reporting an additional 84 fatalities.	LEAD
Authorities said the new casualties included wounded people who later died in hospital and bodies of victims taken from the scene before being accounted for.	VERB
Foreign aid workers said they were working around the clock to save the lives of the remaining wounded	VERB
_ many with severe burns to most of their bodies.	VERB
``We shall do the impossible to make sure the rest survive,'' said Bernard Viala, the head of a French emergency medical team in Yaounde.	VERB
Investigators were still probing the site where two tanker cars rolled loose on the train tracks, derailed and then ruptured on Saturday.	MAIN
The gushing petroleum ignited and set off a powerful explosion, instantly killing dozens of bystanders.	MAIN
The investigation results are not expected to be released until the end of March or early April.	EXPE
While the cause of the explosion has not been determined, police said it may have been purposefully triggered.	VERB
Several bystanders had threatened to start a fire when police forced them away from the crash site.	VERB
Several Cameroon government ministers blamed the great loss of life on some of the victims themselves	VERB
_ bystanders and motorists who had rushed to the scene to scoop up the spilling fuel to use in their automobiles.	VERB
Army volunteers continued burying many victims who were burned beyond recognition in mass graves.	CONS
Other corpses have been returned to their families for private burial.	CONS

DURA, West Bank (AP)	LEAD
_ Israeli policemen fired live rounds in the air Thursday to disperse hundreds of young Palestinians who blocked a major West Bank road to show their support for Saddam Hussein.	LEAD
The confrontation began when elementary and high school students marched and burned Israeli and U.S. flags in Dura, a West Bank town that remains under Israeli security control.	MAIN
At one point, the marchers blocked the main road running through Dura with boulders, and hurled rocks at an Israeli police van and settler cars.	MAIN
The four policemen in the van called for backup and then fired in the air with pistols and assault rifles.	MAIN
Three more vans and an Israeli army jeep arrived a few minutes later.	MAIN
There were no immediate reports of injury.	MAIN
After a while, the shooting stopped and Israeli soldiers began firing tear gas and rubber bullets at the demonstrators.	MAIN
Troops chased stone throwers into the fields.	MAIN
Two Palestinians were injured by rubber bullets and six were overcome by tear gas.	MAIN
The incident marked the most serious confrontation between Israeli troops and Palestinians since pro-Iraq demonstrations began in the West Bank several weeks ago.	CIRC
The rallies often ended in stone throwing clashes, but until now Israeli troops have fired only rubber bullets, not live ammunition.	PREV
The Palestinian Authority has banned pro-Iraq rallies, but that ban has been widely ignored.	PREV
The Palestinian Authority has also prohibited Palestinian radio and television stations from broadcasting commentary in support of Saddam or footage of demonstrations.	PREV
The ban came under pressure from the United States.	PREV
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, who paid a heavy price for his open support of Saddam during the 1991 Gulf War, has been carefully neutral in his statements, saying he would like to see a diplomatic solution to the conflict.	HIST
In the West Bank town of Ramallah, Palestinian police prevented a planned pro-Iraq rally by the Palestinian Professionals' Union.	PREV
Police told organizers they would be breaking the law if they went ahead and the marchers left quietly.	PREV
The march in Dura began Thursday morning with about 800 school students waving Iraqi and Palestinian flags and urging Saddam Hussein to fire missiles at Israel.	MAIN
``With our spirit and our blood, we will redeem Iraq,'' and ``Saddam, Saddam, our beloved, hit Tel Aviv,'' shouted the about 800 elementary and high school students.	VERB
Demonstrators burned six Israeli and two U.S. flags and several held up a banner reading ``Why do the Iraqi people have to pay the price for Clinton's affairs?''	MAIN

JERUSALEM (AP)	LEAD
Taking the stand in her own defense, a friend of Yitzhak Rabin's assassin said Friday that she regretted calling the prime minister a traitor and praying for his death.	LEAD
Margalit Har-Shefi, 22, has pleaded innocent to charges that she failed to report Yigal Amir's plan to kill Rabin.	MAIN
She took the stand for more than four hours Friday in a Tel Aviv magistrate's court.	MAIN
Amir, 27, is serving a life sentence for the November 1995 assassination of Rabin at a Tel Aviv peace rally.	HIST
Newspaper reports have said Amir was infatuated with Har-Shefi and may have been trying to impress her by killing the prime minister.	HIST
Har-Shefi acknowledged she told police interrogators that Rabin was a traitor and that she prayed for him to have a heart attack and die.	VERB
She said Rabin's murder was ``a black stain on Israel,''	VERB
Israel radio and Israel army radio reported.	VERB
Har-Shefi said she heard Amir talk about killing Rabin but did not tell the police because she did not believe he was serious.	VERB
Instead, she turned to her community rabbi in the Jewish West Bank settlement of Beit El and told him about Amir's statements.	PREV
The rabbi said called the talk about killing Rabin ``nonsense,'' and said Jews are prohibited from killing one another, the radio reports said.	PREV
Har-Shefi described Amir as an ``original thinker,'' as well as delusional and a liar.	VERB
She also denied accusations made by Amir's brother, Hagai, that she joined an anti-Arab underground movement.	VERB
She said she gave the Amir brothers false information regarding the location of a weapons and ammunition cache when they asked her to help organize such a movement.	VERB

ISTANBUL, Turkey (AP)	LEAD
Some 1,500 ethnic Albanians marched Sunday in downtown Istanbul, burning Serbian flags to protest the killings of ethnic Albanians by Serb police in southern Serb Kosovo province.	LEAD
The police barred the crowd from reaching the Yugoslavian consulate in downtown Istanbul, but allowed them to demonstrate on nearby streets.	MAIN
``Stop the bloodshed in Kosovo,'' the protesters chanted.	VERB
Meanwhile in the capital, Ankara, a few hundred ethnic Albanians laid a black wreath at the gate of Yugoslavian embassy.	MAIN
Ethnic Albanians comprise 90 percent of the population in Kosovo, but Serbs maintain control through a large military and police presence.	CIRC
Serbian police say they are trying to eliminate the pro-independence Kosovo Liberation Army and restore order.	CIRC
At least 51 people were reported killed in clashes between Serb police and ethnic Albanians in the troubled region in recent days.	PREV
Turkey, worried about civil war in Kosovo spilling to the whole Balkans, urged all Balkan states to sign a joint declaration that the Kosovo crisis be solved peacefully and without any change of borders.	PREV
Turks feel they have special ties to the whole region, which they ruled for hundreds of years during the Ottoman Empire.	CIRC
They also share Islam with the ethnic Albanians.	CIRC

MALAYSIA'S aggressive move into the information age could not come in a more opportune time.	EVAL
With the convergence of communications and information technologies (IT) coupled with the coming of age for the Internet and its related technologies, the stage is set for Malaysians to seize the chance to transform into a knowledge society and become worthy opponents/players in the global market space.	MAIN
The Internet, the global network of computers, is now far reaching into the country - extending its embrace to include every nook and cranny of the nation - opening doors to not only a diverse range of information sources but also an exhaustive list of possibilities to create new applications which add value to people's lives.	CIRC
In the business world, the Internet - through intranet and extranet solutions - has become an invaluable tool for companies to harness so as to gain a competitive edge.	EVAL
The solutions are also vital components in developing the borderless marketing flagship application which is a vital element for spearheading the development of the Multimedia Super Corridor (MSC) project.	EVAL
The application will create the necessary framework and infrastructure to support electronic commerce (e-commerce) initiatives in the country.	EXPE
However, it is important to note that installing or implementing Internet technologies for technology's sake would not ensure instant success.	EVAL
For e-commerce to flourish with full-blown end-to-end business transactions, strategic planning which incorporates both business and technology plans that are complementary is necessary for an organisation to see feasible returns on investment.	EVAL
Intranets, through the use of Internet technology, are positioned as a platform for companies to optimise, expand and transform new channels of business.	EVAL
When strategically implemented, an intranet solution will provide the ability to mediate mission-critical, decision support functions in organisations.	EVAL
It will also help further improve communications and collaboration at all levels in an organisation.	EVAL
With intranets in place, it is only logical for organisations to respectively link the network to other companies' for extended business purposes through extranets.	EVAL
While this will enable the sharing of information among enterprises, security issues such as firewalls and encryption as well as access and control procedures, and the trust levels that enterprises have with each other will emerge and there will be a need to address them.	EXPE
Other than usage in business, Internet technology is also beginning to infiltrate the lifestyle domain.	CIRC
``Smart homes'' have emerged bringing a wealth of information and entertainment to families over telecommunications lines.	CIRC
The art of socialising is also experiencing a change where Net/virtual relationships are fast overtaking or becoming parallel with the normal human relationships.	CIRC
Whether this would prove positive or otherwise towards society in the future is yet to be seen.	EVAL
All in all, the Internet has a lot to offer.	EVAL
However, its value and benefits are only as good as how we use it.	EVAL

AMMAN, Jordan (AP)	MAIN
King Hussein Sunday rebuked hard-line political parties opposed to peace with Israel, saying they should respect the majority opinion.	MAIN
Hussein said he has always accepted the opposition's right to differ.	VERB
But at the same time ``the prevailing opinion should be that of the majority, and the opinion of the majority should be respected,'' the monarch said.	VERB
Hussein's remarks in a ceremony marking the 45th anniversary of his accession to the throne underlined his frustration with mounting opposition to Jordan's 1994 peace treaty with Israel.	CIRC
With the Palestinian-Israeli peace negotiations deadlocked, many in Jordan's predominantly Palestinian population have became critical of peace with Israel.	CIRC
But in the absence of opinion polls, it is difficult to say how many Jordanians are for or against the peace treaty.	CIRC
``Opposition can be on a certain policy or position, but absolute opposition for the sake of opposition is not acceptable,'' Hussein said.	VERB
Instead, he said, there must be ``dialogue and consultations until we reach a consensus.''	VERB
Jordan's 13 hard-line political parties, espousing ideologies ranging from Muslim fundamentalism to communism, have no seats in the 80-member parliament.	CIRC
Still, they wield considerable influence among the poor Palestinian refugees in Jordan.	CIRC
Palestinians displaced in the 1948 and 1967 Arab-Israeli wars make up roughly two-thirds of Jordan's 3.8 million population. &UR; jah/vj	PREV

JARJOU, Lebanon (AP)	LEAD
Hezbollah guerrillas took turns Sunday to leave the front lines in southern Lebanon and vote in municipal elections that is likely to endorse their fight against Israeli occupation.	LEAD
Candidates backed by the pro-Iranian Shiite Hezbollah group are contesting most of the 1,589 posts in southern Lebanon, a predominantly Shiite region.	CIRC
``I voted for Hezbollah's candidates because they are defending our land and offering public services with or without municipal elections,'' said Umm Mohammed, a veiled mother of two children.	VERB
The roads from Jarjou and other villages in Iqlim al-Tuffah province were festooned with the Hezbollah's banners and flags as well as portraits of Iran's late revolutionary leader, Ayatollah Khomeini.	VERB
Iqlim al-Tuffah is a Hezbollah mountain stronghold that faces the part of South Lebanon that Israel occupies with the help of a Lebanese militia.	CIRC
Hezbollah has led the fight to oust the Israelis.	CIRC
``Today's voting is part of the resistance against Israeli occupation,'' said Fawzi Darwish, a 34-year-old businessman in Jarjou, which is only 400 meters (yards) from Israeli outposts at Sojod.	VERB
Darwish said he voted for pro-Hezbollah candidates.	VERB
No voting was held in the Israeli-occupied area.	VERB
Zeinab Khafaja, who lost her guerrilla brother to a battle against the Israelis, said it was her holy duty to vote for Hezbollah.	VERB
``It's a vote between the good and evil,'' said the 35-year-old mother of four.	VERB
Hezbollah fighters also participated in the elections, leaving their weapons at the front line to walk unarmed to the polling booths.	MAIN
Guerrilla leaders rotated the fighters to make sure that the front line was not unmanned at any time, said Haj Adnan Naameh, a Hezbollah official, in nearby Jubaa, home to 4,000 people.	VERB
``The fighter has a primary right to vote,'' he said.	VERB
The front lines were generally quiet Sunday and voting was peaceful as troops in armored vehicles patrolled the villages and guarded polling stations.	CIRC
But the electoral battle was heated between Hezbollah and the pro-Syrian mainstream Amal movement, also a Shiite group.	EVAL
The victorious group will be seen as the voice of the nation's Shiites who number 1.2 million among Lebanon's 3.2 million people.	EVAL
Besides the Shiite fight, the elections _ the first municipal polls in 35 years _ also are seen as proof that Lebanon's Christians and Muslims are willing to join hands in building democracy after the devastating 1975-90 civil war.	EVAL
Voting was also held Sunday in Beirut, 50 kilometers (30 miles) northwest of Jarjou.	EVAL
The vote was the third segment of the four-stage elections organized over four consecutive Sundays. &UR; hd/sfg/vj	EVAL

WASHINGTON _ Following are statements made Friday and Thursday by Lawrence Wechsler, a lawyer for the White House secretary, Betty Currie; the White House; White House spokesman Mike McCurry, and President Clinton in response to an article in The New York Times on Friday about her statements regarding a meeting with the president:	LEAD
Wechsler on Thursday	PREV
``Without commenting on the allegations raised in this article, to the extent that there is any implication or suggestion that Mrs. Currie was aware of any legal or ethical impropriety by anyone, that implication or suggestion is entirely inaccurate.'	VERB
White House on Thursday	PREV
``For the past few weeks we've been subjected to false leaks designed to mislead both reporters and the American public.	VERB
We're not going to dignify the latest false leak with a response.'	VERB
McCurry on Friday	PREV
``I want to be absolutely clear, to the extent there is any implication or the slightest suggestion that Mrs. Currie believes that the President or anyone else tried to influence her recollection, that is absolutely false and a mischaracterization of the facts.	VERB
I am shocked and dismayed by the numerous leaks regarding Mrs. Currie's grand jury testimony.''	VERB
Clinton on Friday.	PREV
``Once again, I never asked anybody to do anything but tell the truth.	VERB
I know about the stories today.	VERB
I was pleased that Ms. Currie's lawyers stated unambiguously this morning _ unambiguously _ that she's not aware of any unethical conduct.	VERB

The New York Times said in an editorial for Saturday, Feb. 7: When the subject turns to animals, most politicians turn irrational.	LEAD
There is no better evidence than bills passed in Congress dramatically changing public housing policy.	LEAD
Both House and Senate versions have an avowed aim of giving more control to the local authorities.	LEAD
But on one issue, both chambers went in the opposite direction by stripping local housing administrators of the right to ban pets from their projects.	LEAD
Large dogs bred for fighting have become a safety hazard in some projects.	CIRC
Even peaceable animals can turn playgrounds into health hazards or create misery for an entire floor of tenants by barking or using the hallways as a bathroom.	CIRC
Animal advocates _ with a big assist from the pet food lobby	CIRC
_ say these problems should be dealt with on a case-by-case basis.	CIRC
That might work well in smaller projects or where ferocious pit bulls are not high-testosterone status symbols.	CIRC
But in New York City, where more than half a million people live in public housing, that approach fails.	CIRC
Except in projects for the elderly, the New York City Housing Authority theoretically bans dogs.	CIRC
But the authority actually follows a live-and-let-live policy unless building workers or neighbors complain that a family is keeping a dangerous or noisy animal.	CIRC
Getting rid of those bad apples then becomes a long, difficult and expensive process.	CIRC
The authority has had to initiate eviction proceedings against 300 families who refused to get rid of their animals until they were faced with immediate loss of their apartments.	CIRC
The authority will never, and should never, waste its time and resources trying to weed out all the innocuous and beloved family dogs.	CIRC
But the ban provides useful leverage against people who will not easily agree to get rid of a pet, no matter how miserable it makes life for the neighbors.	CIRC
Empowering dog-owning families with a federal right will make it far more difficult for the authority to win a case.	CIRC
This is an issue that is simple to rectify.	EXPE
The legislators who created this mess, particularly Rep. Carolyn Maloney of New York, must encourage the conferees to kill the provision and refrain from bringing the idea up again.	EXPE
Fighting the pet lobby will not win them any votes.	EXPE
But it is the responsible thing to do _ the kind of small decision that shows the difference between a pandering politician and a serious legislator.	EXPE

STANFORD,	EVAL
Calif. _	EVAL
It was fun while it lasted for the Harvard women's basketball team.	EVAL
The Crimson's run in the NCAA tournament ended on Monday night with an 82-64 loss to Arkansas (20-10) in a second-round matchup at Maples Pavilion at Stanford University.	MAIN
Wendy Willits, Arkansas' freshman guard, nailed six 3-pointers (including five in the first nine minutes of the game), one short of the NCAA tournament record.	MAIN
Meanwhile, the senior point guard Christy Smith led Arkansas with 19 points while also recording 11 assists.	MAIN
So Harvard (23-5) is left to ponder the significance of its run and the possible long-term impact on both the Crimson and the Ivy League.	CONS
Defeating top-seeded Stanford in the first round was a truly remarkable feat by Harvard.	EVAL
Not only had no 16th-seeded team ever defeated a No. 1-seeded team, but none had come closer than 32 points.	EVAL
Maybe it was only a matter of time before an Ivy League team broke through.	HIST
After all, Dartmouth lost by only three points to Virginia in 1995, when the Cavaliers were seeded third in the East Regional.	HIST
A year later, Harvard was within five points late in the second half against Vanderbilt, also seeded third and playing at home.	HIST
Arkansas coach Gary Blair, who was not short on hyperbole during the postgame news conference, was clearly impressed by Harvard.	VERB
``Harvard is the American dream,'' he said.	VERB
``It's an indication to the rest of America to realize, 'We can.'	VERB
I'm just as excited for Harvard as I was for my basketball team.'	VERB
But Harvard coach Kathy Delaney-Smith was a bit more restrained in her assessment.	EVAL
``Yes, it will certainly have an impact,'' Delaney-Smith said.	VERB
`It will impact in that Allison Feaster and her senior classmates have left a legacy for the younger players to believe that anything can happen.	VERB
``In the sense of changing the program _ attracting a higher level of players	VERB
I doubt that because we are already competing with some of the top 10 programs for players.	VERB
Admissions is entirely out of my hands.	VERB
If I were to list some of the phenomenal players that we're very interested in, one of two things happened: Their financial aid package didn't work for their family, or they were not admitted to Harvard.''	VERB
But for Feaster, who lived up to her billing on a national stage, the tournament performance means a career in one of the two professional women's leagues.	VERB
The senior forward, who finished with 2,312 career points, said she will pursue professional opportunities.	VERB
Feaster ``reminds me of a smaller version of Natalie Williams, who's the best player in the ABL,'' Blair said.	VERB
``She could be for women's Ivy League basketball what Bill Bradley was for the men years ago.	VERB
Before she hits Wall Street, I hope she hits the pro leagues for a few years.'	VERB

NEWARK,	LEAD
N.J. _	LEAD
A new Essex County task force began delving Thursday into the slayings of 14 black women over the last five years in the Newark area, as law-enforcement officials acknowledged that they needed to work harder to solve the cases of murdered women.	LEAD
The police and prosecutors said they had identified different suspects in six of the cases and had yet to find any pattern linking the killings or the victims, several of whom were believed to be prostitutes.	CONS
State, county and local law-enforcement officials have expressed concerns in recent months about a possible pattern of murdered women and a disproportionate number of unsolved cases.	CIRC
Citing an example, Sgt.	VERB
Derek Glenn, a spokesman for the Newark Police Department, said that of nine women who had been killed last year, suspects had been arrested in only four cases.	VERB
But over all, arrests were made in more than 60 percent of murder cases, he said.	VERB
Eight of the 14 killings since 1993 were already under investigation by the Newark Police Department, Glenn said.	VERB
Of the eight victims, three were stabbed, two were strangled, two were beaten to death and one was asphyxiated, he said, and these different methods of killing and other evidence seem to indicate that the eight cases are not related.	VERB
But with the task-force investigation just getting under way, officials have been careful not to draw any firm conclusions, leaving open the possibility of a serial killer in some of the cases.	CIRC
There have been no arrests in any of the slayings.	CIRC
``I haven't seen a pattern yet,'' said Patricia Hurt, the Essex County prosecutor, who created the task force on Tuesday.	VERB
``The type of lifestyle these women have is extremely dangerous,'' she said.	VERB

NEW YORK	CIRC
The pink Cristal Champagne was flown in from France, and the rack of lamb was made to order by the chefs at Mortimer's.	CIRC
All so Ilyse Wilpon, whose family is an owner of the Mets, could entertain 113 friends at a private dinner recently.	CIRC
Inside the Upper East Side restaurant, which on this evening was closed to the public, men in Turnbull &AMP; Asser shirts and the latest Hermes ties sat alternately around 12 tables with women with blown-out bobs and Chanel suits.	PREV
The sexes were evenly balanced _ man, woman, man, woman _ except for a 13th table, at which seven women sat together with a single man (who seemed to disappear after he ate the lamb).	MAIN
Ms. Wilpon, 35, who co-owns and manages Tati North America, a French bridal store on Fifth Avenue, was concerned about the table's imbalance.	PREV
``Seating can get so complicated,'' she sighed, standing by the bar, wearing black and white pearls and a strapless Givenchy dress.	PREV
At the last minute, seven of her guests had canceled, all of them men.	PREV
They blamed late planes and sudden business meetings (sure, sure).	PREV
Ms. Wilpon seated the extra women with her 92-year-old grandmother.	PREV
But no one seemed overjoyed about the arrangement.	PREV
From Park Avenue to Park Slope, an age-old imbalance confronts the givers of dinner parties: men seem so much more reluctant than women to dress nicely and converse politely around a table.	LEAD
All over town, men and women who attend dinner parties _ whether intimate ones in private homes, black-tie charity affairs in hotel ballrooms or, the latest trend, parties in hot restaurants	LEAD
_ agree that the male of the species is difficult to lure out of his lair for an evening.	LEAD
Lauran Walk, 27, a production coordinator for Sony studios, said it was nearly impossible to get her husband, Charlie Walk, a music promotion executive, to accompany her to dinner parties given by her friends.	VERB
``He always gives me a hard time,''	VERB
Ms. Walk said.	VERB
``He says he's really tired or he wants a quiet night.''	VERB
Scott Jones, 30, a tax manager who lives in the East 20s, says he zones out at dinner parties.	VERB
When his girlfriend, Sherri Weiss, asks him to go with her, he says, ``I suddenly remember a buddy who is in some serious need of guidance.''	VERB
The reluctance challenges dinner-party hosts, who almost invariably say that whether their guests are married or single, gay or straight, dinner parties ought to have equal representation by the sexes.	VERB
``My friends and I say you should go downstairs, dress up the doorman and bring him up to the table rather than be short a man,'' said Jackie Weld, a writer living on the Upper East Side, who gives dinner parties twice a month.	VERB
Polly Onet, a professional party planner who has organized events from small birthday parties to the society wedding of David and Julia Koch, said: ``Women don't want to get all dressed up and sit next to other women.	VERB
And women love to go out more than men.''	VERB
Why, oh why is this the case in the capital of the universe in 1998, when such differences between the sexes might seem to have gone the way of formal dance cards and white tie and cutaways?	EVAL
Men and women who are experienced both as reluctant guests and imploring hosts offer a variety of reasons.	VERB
``Women are more adventurous than men,'' admitted Soli Mehta, 36, an investment banker, adding that he'd rather go to the same familiar restaurants in jeans than dress up and sit next to someone he doesn't know at a dinner party.	VERB
``It's about being comfortable after work,'' he said.	VERB
Women, in his experience, ``like to try new things, dress up, go to new places.''	VERB
Letitia Baldrige, the etiquette maven, said the difference traces to the time when women were denied access to the working world, with its opportunity for social and intellectual stimulation.	VERB
``Women have fought for years to be part of important dinner conversation,'' she said.	VERB
``It's their only time for social intercourse with the opposite sex.	VERB
Lunch is for ladies.	VERB
Dinner is for both.	VERB
Women, many times, have been with the children all day, or even if they haven't, they may be bored with their own husbands and want another husband to talk to.	VERB
Who knows, they may even end up marrying the other one.''	VERB
Today, of course, most women work, and many have opportunities for social interaction during the day.	EVAL
But even professional women seem to enjoy the dinner-party ritual more than their male counterparts.	EVAL
``I like getting dressed up,'' said Ellen V. Futter, the president of the American Museum of Natural History, who said it doesn't matter whether the event is an extension of work or her social life.	VERB
Her husband, she said, is much harder to coax out of the house.	VERB

